-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------- [Viewpoint] -----------------------------------
----------------------------[by Ice Queen Zero]--------------------------------
-------------------------- [Neo Geo/NGCD/Arcade] ------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

o---------------------o
      INTRODUCTION
o---------------------o

Viewpoint is an isometric scroller that scrolls at a 45-degree upward angle and
it has an awesome soundtrack and wonderful graphics. It is pretty tough too so
you better bring your A-game with you. In addition to the Neo Geo, Neo Geo CD,
and the Arcade, it was also released for the X68000, Genesis, and Playstation.

o---------------------o
       DISCLAIMER
o---------------------o
Viewpoint and its characters are trademarks of Sammy n' all copyrights belong 
to them

This FAQ/Walkthrough is the sole copyright of Andrea "Azul Fria" Castillo aka
Ice Queen Zero and cannot be put on other sites or posted without my given 
permission nor can it be reproduced w/o proper consent.

o---------------------o
        CONTROLS
o---------------------o
D-pad: move
A button: Shot
Hold A button then release: Charge shot
B-button: Bomb

o---------------------o
        ITEMS
o---------------------o

H: Homing Bombs
W: Wave Bombs
F: Nova Bombs
Star: Extra points
Barrier: Extra protection
Pod: 2 sidekicks

o---------------------o
      WALKTHROUGH
o---------------------o

There are six levels in all. It's going to be a rough road. Are you ready for
it?

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 1
                             o-----------------------o

Start off by shooting away a couple lines of coin-flipping enemies and then 
kill a saucer than will give you an item that adds two companions by your side.
Shoot away the cannon turrets coming out of the ground while still dealing with 
the coinflippers. You will come across a giant spacefighter with its back 
turned towards you and it will fire bullets at you through its fans as it flies
away from you. While this is going on, some spinning gears will joining the
coinflippers. You'll face a ton of the coinflippers as you encounter another
giant space fighter but this one will retreat. 

Shoot the fans on the sides to make the obstructing walls retract then just fly
through the openings. Shoot away the cannon turrets and gears and then you will
come across a spinning circle of well-designed semicircles. The blue ones are
invincible but you can shoot the red ones. Be sure to destroy the red ones then
fly through the opening and avoid the platform in the middle and fly out the
other side through that opening. More coinflippers appear along with a series
of giant rolling gears and flipping floors. There is also an H item to pick up
as well. Spinning gears will come in and so will ground tanks. Once you're past
the flipping floor area, the spinning gears will come in a 2 line formation and
then fly away. More coinflippers and cannon turrets arrive before being joined
by some giant slinky enemies. After taking care of the slinkies and more of the
spinning gears, the boss will arrive.

Boss Fight: The first boss will let you shoot at it while it prepares itself
for battle then it will attack by firing purple lasers from its sides and will
occassionally do a rushing attack. Move to the sides to avoid the boss' rushing
attack and stay in the middle to avoid the lasers. The boss also has a nasty
spread attack which comes out fast but you are safe if you move between the
bullets but watch out because the boss likes to mix it in with laser attacks.
You'll know if the boss is about to rush when it sticks its head out beforehand
and you can destroy its guns to get rid of laser attacks. Just remember that
you must destroy the boss' head to beat it.

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 2
                             o-----------------------o

This level contains a lot of aquatic enemies. Defeat a few waves of tigerfish
then kill a couple saucers for a H and W bomb. Kill a wave of spinning gears
and tigerfish. You will also be dealing with more coinflippers and saucers as
well as some annoying dragoons who slither back and forth along the area. You
will next come across some sea anenomes that sprout up and shoot lasers at you.
Get past them and there is a big blue tigerfish to fight and it spits out mines
at you. While this is going on, be sure to pay very close attention to any part
of the floor that flashes because that part of the floor is going to rise. A
pod containing a shield will appear in the middle of the fight. Shoot it and
grab the shield and that will offer you protection. It should be a good idea to
use a bomb to make this fight a little quicker. At the end of the rising floors
it is best to rush ahead or you'll be trapped in the lower-left hand side which
is reminiscent to pre-final boss fights in Gradius.

Once past that area, piranhas will pop out of the water and attack your ship.
Keep shooting to stay alive then kill off the sea anenomes and saucers that
follow. You will eventually fly over a series of holes with lots of seaworms
jumping in and out of them. You can avoid most of them by flying to the top of
the screen when you got the chance. Kill the sea anenomes. There are statues
which pose no threat. When you pass them, you fly over a coral and you'll fight
a series of spinning gears and turtles that spin in their shells before coming
out and walking forward before spinning at you again. As you go further, you'll
have to fly a series of turtle shells bouncing back and forth along the walls.
The boss appears afterwards.

Boss Fight: You will fight a giant crab that shoots bubbles at you. For the
majority of the fight, all it will do is shoot bubbles. Occasionally it will
fire its claws ahead before retracting them. You can shoot the claws and its
head. Once its about to die, its body will start exploding during the fight but
the fight will not be over once it does explode. The bosses brain and eyes will
still be intact and it will shoot out crescent shaped lasers that you must avoid
while shooting at it. Stay on your toes because this sucker is fast. It will
eventually fall if you are fast enough.

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 3
                             o-----------------------o

Begin by shooting away the spacefighters, coinflippers, and cannon turrets. You
will come across a F bomb on the way. There are also some walking aliens along
the ground that move in various patterns. You will soon come across a series of
tanks and spiked walls that open and close. Shoot away the tanks for a safe way
through the walls. Once that is over, beware of the tanks, walking aliens and
some nasty hornets that appear. A piece of the floor will raise up and reveal a
hive that releases more hornets. It will lower in time for you to pass through.
Then you have to repeat the process once more and then a couple enemies that
resemble flowers float around and shield themselves while close. When they open
they will shoot a laser ahead. There are spinning tops too but they don't pose
a threat. Next comes the inchworms which only serve as obstructions and then
there are caterpillars whom fire bullets at you. Take these guys out as soon as
possible then take out the inchworm wall.

In the next area, you can kill a saucer for an H bomb. There are flying tops
and centipedes here too that behave like the dragoons from Level 2. You will
come across a caravan of larvae and adult beetles I mistook for caterpillars
earlier, Get past them and fly into the hole. The boss will appear shortly
afterwards.

Boss Fight: The Boss takes the form of a giant moth with butterfly wings. As
you fight it, giant caterpillars will arrive and interfere in the fight. Avoid
the bullets as you shoot at the boss' head. After a number of shots, the head
will blow up and reveal a different one. Now it changes its pattern by turning
away from you and shooting small bullets and homing bullets with its tail. It
will then face you and spit shards of metal that you can shoot away as you go
after the boss' head. On some occassions, the boss will try a rushing attack.
Just keep up the assault until the boss falls.

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 4
                             o-----------------------o

You are confronted by may enemies that you faced in previous levels. Once of
them will reveal a star. Along the way, you can restore your shield if you have
lost it earlier. Just be sure to kill the enemies orbiting around it. After you
deal with these enemies, fly through the hole into the next area where you will
fight some tanks.Then the same old enemies as before. The only new enemies so
far are the bats and the flamethrowers from the sides. It's about to get ugly
here because there's going to be a series of wildfires coming. Once you see one
wildfire finish, rush ahead as soon as possible then prepare for the next. As
you proceed, there will come a walking gun that moves like a duck and has a gun
for a "snout". Kill it and fly through one of the holes to pass through the
wall and deal with the same walkers you saw earlier except they shoot homing
missiles. The next thing you fight will be a scorpion and some enemies that fly
in and shoot rays. You can fly past the scorpion and it will retreat. Survive
the next wave of assault from the familiar enemies and the next thing you will
confront will be a series of trucks that move in wierd patters. Don't bother
fighting them, just avoid them. Near the end of their pattern, two will release
some spinning gears before they eventually retreat. Time to face the boss.

Boss: This boss is ugly. When it opens its mouth, shoot at it while you avoid
its bullets. When it retreats back, it will bounce back and forth off the side
walls towards you. Fly past it then avoid it as it bounces back like a pinball.
Rinse and repeat until the first face is destroyed. The second face will only
spit out coinflippers and fly in strange patterns. The third face will only use
bats to attack you with and they spit spread bullets themselves. The final face
will shoot spread bullets and surround itself with face shields that can go out
and attack you. Once all four faces are destroyed, the boss dies.

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 5
                             o-----------------------o

This level takes place over a fire pit and I'll warn you ahead of time that you
are going to spend lots of time on this level even if you are an expert player
and its because of something I'll discuss later on. Shoot away the coinflippers
and spinning gears. Fly through the middle and kill what looks like submarine
scopes coming out of the lava. Grab the F bomb. Continue flying through the
middle to avoid the lava worms spouting out. Just up ahead is a rematch with
the Level 1 boss. Yes that's right folks, you will be fighting bosses that you
killed in the first four levels during the course of this one. I won't bother
putting up any strategies since you know what to expect. Once the first boss 
dies, kill the space fighters swooping in and out. Avoid the lava worms and 
deal with the submarine scopes. There is another shield to pick up. The Level 2
boss is next. Deal with it as before. More lava worms and scopes to deal with
before the Level 3 boss arrives. Do your duty here. Once it falls, you not only
deal with lava worms and scopes but you deal with spinning gears and flying ray
shooters. Beat the fourth boss as you did before. Once that is over, avoid one
more wave of lava worms and scopes and some spacefightes to boot and the real
boss will finally make an entrance.

Boss Fight: Shoot at its red core while you avoid its bullets. When it sticks
its head out, it will fire a laser straight ahead. After taking a few hits, it
will send its fans at you while shooting lasers constantly. Ironically, this
boss fall fast compared to the other four bosses you've encountered.

                             o-----------------------o
                                      Level 6
                             o-----------------------o

This is the last level. Good job on making it this far. Kill the spinning gears
and spinning turrets as well as the walkers and spinning tops and flyring ray
ships and tanks. Along the way you will see a spinning cog that splits in two
and carry a wave of electricity between them. Watch out for debris that comes
flying in too as well as rolling blocks. This level is extremely tough. This
ain't the last level for nothing you know. You will eventually come across some
springs that expand and a wave of electricity orbiting them each. Get past this
part and survive the rock, coinflipper, and satellite assault. Get past the
splitters and spinning gears and the final boss is ahead.

Final Boss Fight: This boss throws a lot at you. Its attack consists of spread
bullets, missiles, lasers and an occasional rush attack. The front legs can be
destroyed and in turn destroy the hind legs. Now just attack the body. When it
dies, you are not done yet. It will transform and fire four different colors of
vials that will determine what attack is coming. Yellow vials unleash yellow
homing balls. Red ones sends a wall of flames at you so fly through the opening
of it. Blue ones sends out slithering and homing flames and the green ones will
fire spread bullets and bounce green balls off the walls. Once this boss dies
then you beat the game. You got one more fight. Avoid the purple rocks' lasers
and continue assaulting the boss while you avoid its shot too. Once this boss
is dead then the game is over. Good job you beat the game.

o---------------------o
        CREDITS
o---------------------o

God almighty for he created everything you see before us.

Sammy for making this game.

SNK for publishing it.

o---------------------o
      CONTACT ME
o---------------------o

azulfria[at]hotmail[dot]com
[at] = @ and [dot] = .
Don't want any email bots.

You can also find me at Zophar.net updating the emus on console so you can buzz
me there if you have an account. http://www.zophar.net/forums/member.php?u=2683

Here is my Youtube account I share with my sisters.
http://www.youtube.com/user/PurrfectTrio
http://www.youtube.com/user/PurrfectTunes

Check out http://www.vizzed.com/index.php?ref=283591 for retrogame action

Thank you for reading

-Ice Queen Zero


