Joshua(NES) FAQ version 1.0.0
by Andrew Schultz schultz.andrew@sbcglobal.net

================================

            OUTLINE

  1. INTRODUCTION

  2. CONTROLS

  3. GENERAL STUFF

    3-1. ITEMS

    3-2. ENEMIES

    3-3. STRATEGIES

  4. WALKTHROUGH

  5. CHEATS

  6. VERSIONS

  7. CREDITS

================================

  1. INTRODUCTION

  2. CONTROLS

  3. GENERAL STUFF

    3-1. ITEMS

    3-2. ENEMIES

    3-3. STRATEGIES

  4. WALKTHROUGH

Level 1:

Like any good first level, this explores basic concepts and doesn't hit you 
with anything too hard.

Head to the left structure and blast your way up to the top. Get the jugs as 
you go. In the right structure, go to the top picking up silver coins and go 
back down so you can turn right and blast down to take out another question 
in the DR. You should be protected by a coin overhead,  when you can run up 
and fire up and sweep out the other coins(you'll outrun the falling boulders 
you haven't shot up,) but you may wish to clear out enough on the left before 
descending right so there is no ambiguity. However, in general, there's no 
wrong way to go haywire from above on a clump of boulders.

Now for the next bit. The boulder in the bottom to the right holds a 
question, as does the one way at the top. You shouldn't have to encounter any 
enemies to tackle them, but when you move a little further right(get the jugs 
as you go--you don't need all of them, only six, but the points are nice, I 
guess) you can shoot two enemies. Remember they take three shots each but you 
should be able to take them, straight on or from behind. You can shoot 
everyone, in fact, but I would like to mention that the boulder to the right, 
near the top, hides a question and can be pushed over an enemy for extra 
points. He should loop down twice and you can drop the boulder ahead of time. 
It is faster than him.

The guy in the UR is pesky, but you can either walk around him or shoot him 
down. You also may want to shoot the slab 1L1D of the exit in the UR. It 
holds a Bible.

Joshua was Moses's AIDE
The son of NUN
THE LORD
TAKE THEIR INHERITANCE
ALL HITTITE LAND

Level 2:

You can get out of this level the easy way, without collecting any gold. Or 
you can take a huge risk by letting the radioactive enemies out. Maybe 
there's a lesson here about Mammon and stuff. Or maybe it's just a general 
gradual introduction of a challenge.

But you can dig out all questions without disturbing the enemies.

* L 3D of where you start.
* 3L of the music note
* 2U 2R of the note
* 2D of the music note
* 1R 2D of the left top corridor

That's really pretty easy. However, if violence is more your thing(and you 
need the violence before you can get the money,) clear the enemies out first. 
You can shoot 2x left from the UR question and the rock will fall on the 
enemy--note he has orange robes, signifying he is invincible to your music--
if he is facing down. You can go down the left and fire right to release the 
DL boulder, and you can roll it into that enemy.

Now the remaining enemies are Purple Guys and you don't want too many roaming 
around at once.

Clearing out the UR/DR enemies wastes a lot less time later, so let's do 
that. Go along the top and fire away--there are secret doors to the right. 
Run back left and then down the left side and fire right 3x so you run past 
the boulder and are in a chamber where you can drop it on the enemy when he 
is in the DL and bounces right and comes back left, about to turn up. Worst 
case, you trap him and need extra legwork.

For the DR guy, go to the bottom, then 3R U 2R D 2R and run the other way 
when you can. The boulder in the UR that you dropped on the invincible--go 2D 
of it, fire up, go U L quickly. That should crush the trailing guy. You 
should crush him. Work your way up the right side--you can hold down fire as 
you try different directions.

Clear out the questions now, and that leaves the DL/UL, a timing proposition. 
Blast through the center of the left wall. A secret passage winds U L D R D L 
U L U and, by the second-top clear gold, fire left. Get the gold above it and 
2 below. Then 1 1/2 up from the bottom, fire down and go up, then fire up 
when you are just above the intersection--1/2 unit. Then go down and right. 
The gold will crush both enemies.

TWO spies
RAHAB
FALSE
CONQUER
TRUE

Bonus level:

While the bonus level may look intimidating, you can just push diagonally to 
anticipate any curves. It is actually tougher than later bonus levels.

It's ok to go through here as long as you don't enjoy it. Excess points 
aren't the root of all evil. Love of excess points is. Haw haw haw. What you 
need to do is go up and the dip down into the letters as you can. Circle the 
O and get the stuff above before moving on to the edge. You'll have to move 
back to get the stuff at the bottom but that is no big deal. Shoot through to 
the bottom corner and now you're fast again and the enemies are frozen. Weave 
for the two bibles if you want. Then you can run through the rest of the 
maze. I've finished with 25 seconds left so don't worry aboout little slips.

Level 3:

In the big picture, you can just shoot the outside enemies and then, if you 
want, use a bomb to block out the guys on the inside while you get the stuff 
in the inner loops.

Tactical details: work your way to the top. Get the note. Go along the top 
and collect whatever you find. Shoot at a guy when he is 2 squares away. 
There are two on the left. You can hide in wait for him and just hold down 
fire. Note you can also go into the corners with the secret doors to pick up 
bombs. You don't need all twelve.

Now for maximum points(but skippable) you can clear out the left inside by 
waiting for your enemies to go by and placing bombs near the entrance. One 1W 
of the entrance and one next to it will kill an enemy with one chain 
reaction.

Go to the right, where you probably don't need to block anyone out. You can 
bomb the enemies while they're in the inside bit, but you can just work 
around the wiggle room. If you went to the right first, you'd have all 5 
questions and the exit would block the left inside.

FALSE
ON THE ROOF
SPARE HER FAMILY
WALL
FALSE

Level 4:

This level is easy once you find the appropriate power-up. Go to the top and 
push the boulder right. Then work down(you're immune from the radiation) and 
get the sound at the bottom. Up, fire right, etc. until you get to the top. 
Now you can shoot the left if you like, too. That gets a bunch of notes. 
Massacre the enemy as they come in from the left and get the jugs. Shoot the 
boulders if you want but nothing's really there. The exit is 2L of the DR.

BY ROPE
MOUNTAINS
SCARLET THREAD
RIVER JORDAN
FALSE

Level 5:

The letters spell "J-O-S-H." You start in the O. Here you have enough 
megaphone power-ups to continually shoot dirt away. Shoot your way out before 
getting the big noise. Once you have it, fire down as you can, heading to the 
left. Clear out the left and work your way right. Fire down twice between the 
O and S. Take out the bottom of the S--free bible at its hook--and take out 
the rest of the S if you can. You'll run out before you get to the right 
edge, but approach it from the bottom and use the remaining firepower to 
clear out the bottom of the H and top of the S. You probably have everything 
you need now, but you can clear out the rest if you want, to search for stuff 
you didn't get. The exit is on the left of the O.

FROM SHITTIM
THE LEVITES
THE ARK
IN THE RIVER
STOPPED FLOWING

Level 6:

Here there isn't enough gold as is so you need to learn to bomb the swamp. 
Shoot the DR dirt and get the 10 bombs. You can also get 3 bombs D 2L of 
there. Fire right so there is an axe instead of people and leave a horn 
there. Then go to the top and shoot boulders while you wait. The question is 
along the bottom. Pick it up and run left and get the jug and shoot around 
you. Place a bomb--preferable 1R of the entry so you can get three jugs--and 
get out. Repeat until you have $10+ of the 20 you need AS WELL AS the 
question at the bottom of the swamp 1R of the DL.

Blast open the next bit--question in the UL--then where you have the 
entrapped boulder at the bottom, go 1R of it and fire down. You'll hit a 
secret wall and then shoot the boulder that was entrapped for ten bombs. Take 
out the red mud with bombs again. There's a question 1D of the UR. Also there 
is a note 1U1L of the UR. Fire at the block that is 1L1D of the boulder 
blocking the DR mud. A bible, yay. There's also a sundial 2L of the gold 
coin. You probably don't need it, but it stops the time. The exit is way back 
in the left.

ADAM
TRUE
12
FALSE
MEMORIAL

Level 7:

Not hard to start. Fire at the dirt under the boulders and as long as the 
enemies aren't about to leave, they'll be crushed. For the last one you may 
want to wait for the enemy to get near. Continue as you loop D L, getting 
treasure as you go. Go up the left side of the dirt area, then right and push 
the boulder onto the bad guy near the question. Go down andon top of the 
boulder 1L 1D and push left. 1U of that shaft is one question, and you can go 
2D 3R for another. Go to the top and just fire at the guy there. 3rd from the 
left is where the final question is, so just fire down there. When things get 
tedious fire to the left and right to scope things out. There's no set way to 
do this, but when you can move down, do. You also need all three silver 
coins. There's a bible in the wall to the left, 1U from the bottom.

The exit is in the main dirt area, 1R of the wall, vertically in the middle.

40K
JOSHUA
GILGAL
FALSE
TRUE

Level 8:

A progression of 5x5 rooms, none too treacherous. To start you can just pick 
up the good stuff. When the enemy below turns down, drop a rock on him. 
You'll need to clear debris and push it away later since it is obscuring a 
question. To its right is a secret door, but don't take it. Instead, push the 
cinder block into the knight. Go to the top and push the boulders over your 
enemies. In the next 5x5 room, drob boulders on the shriekers. There's more 
to collect here. But when you see the birds, stay two paces away from the UL 
one, then fire at it. That will kill the knight below. Stand by the entry of 
the next room and gun the guys down.

Get the jugs in the next room. Stay at/near the bottom so nothing falls way 
below--not critical, just a time saver. Push the boulder right as the enemy 
makes his last turn right. Repeat for the next guy. Now you can walk around 
the final knight guarding the exit, but if you want to drop a boulder on him, 
start pushing when he is in the UR of his run.

FALSE
FALSE
PASSOVER
TRUE
TRUE

Level 9:

Fire 2D R D. This shovel makes things much easier. U R 2U for the bolt and 
now burst through the boulders. If you can go just a bit down of them you can 
take out the dirt too. It's not really worth taking a half second to tap to 
the side as the dirt doesn't hold anything. Go all the way right, get the 
stuff in the right and come back left along the bottom boulder row. You 
should clear enough out.

The dirt left of the boulders has two questions and you can start shooting 
the boulders below with your new firepower. Shoot the right side and take 
care of everything right of the megaphone. Get to the megaphone and fire left 
once or twice(you need to uncover a question there now or later in the DL,) 
then right, go up, fire right etc. to the top. Move right and shoot to take 
out what's in the DR, but beware of the notes bouncing back at you. Go right 
of the goat 4 squares, up and duck down. He'll run at you. Go up and down 
again so he runs at you, and you can get the three sets of three bombs. You 
can use them to blow up the UR of the purple radiation, which leads to a 
bonus level.

Bonus level 2:

For this one you just need to lead the next direction you're going, i.e. if 
you are going right and there is a turn down, hold down/right. There are some 
diagonal areas where you can do this, too. The level is one-way so I don't 
think you need detailed instructions if you got here.

TRUE
FALSE
FALSE
TRUE
TRUE

Level 10:

Fire left a bunch. Then get the question and keep going left. Bull through 
the DL corner and you'll find secret walls containing a lot of notes. Shoot 
through the UR boulder and you'll find a megaphone. Use it to fire right and 
down with impunity, taking any jugs in the way. You'll find two more 
questions here--one, 1U from the top and another along the diagonal going UR. 
A megaphone is UR of it but hold off until you've gotten the other stuff. 
It's pretty easy once you've got amplification to go down, fire left, go D/DL 
etc.

You should be able to gun down the guys in the DR and go back where you 
started to the next level warp easily enough.

FALSE
TRUE
TRUE
FALSE
FALSE

Level 11:

Shoot down the left and right sides to nail your enemies. There's a note here 
too you can get. Go along the bottom and fire up at the middle boulder for 
more music. Get the smiley and DON'T SHOOT over the swamp. Push right at the 
top for one question. Then come back down and go right--shoot the boulders to 
reveal another question. Don't get the megaphone yet. At the dirt, hold up 
and fire up continually to get to the top. You'll get a question along the 
way. Shoot two boulders to the right and push the third all the way right to 
kill the enemies. The 2nd-right pit has another question.

Shoot your way back down--it's good to start at the top and zigzag down--then 
blast down the bottom. Get the bible 1D of the top, 1D1R of where the one 
question was. Get the megaphone and fire right, go 1U, fire right, 1U, fire 
right. Get the final question in the DR and then look both ways before 
crossing to the top. Stay on the right edge and then get the UR coin and work 
your way left. The exit is under the last coin.

TRUE
FALSE
FALSE
TRUE
TRUE

Level 12:

Gun your enemies down by firing left a bunch. Don't move 'til you killed the 
last one. Get all the jugs and the question. Kill the guy blocking the UR 
passage. There's a Bible along the bottom left bit. Get that, then blow up 
the birds in the UR. Huge chain reaction. Get the 1-bombs in the shape of a 
J. Now there's nothing to the left except some stop signs that slow you down, 
so just go back R D L and get the blue jugs. Push the top boulder into one 
enemy then fire 2D, then 1U of the jug, then get the jug and fire left and go 
right. Push the blouder into the enemy.

Now you can repeat, but mirror imaged, for the rest of this middle section. 
You have to work up and around the boulder but it is worth it to make sure of 
things. Shoot the remaining outlines to pick up a couple of seconds. Now you 
need to bomb some axes and from the DL, U R leave a bomb, 2U and leave 
another. That reveals the exit and the final question. The very final one is 
at the top but you still need 3 more gold. 2R2D of the UR gets you four jugs. 
You can pick up the rest if you want, but it's not necessary.

FALSE
ACHAN
AI
FALSE
TRUE

Level 13:

Fire U, go R, fire U. Don't get the good stuff yet.Shoot the bird from afar. 
Then go R U R and there's a secret door to blast right. Go R U and fire--
another secret door. A cinder block will fall, so go D L and push it right. 
Now get the power ups and fire 1U 1L of where it was and continue. U R U and 
run left into the top row, then fire at it. You should make it without having 
to push a cinder block, after which you should blow up the remaining birds. 
If you got by without pushing a cinder block, the question's easy to get, but 
if not, fire at the dirt and immediately go in to pick it up.

Now 1R of the top and 4D, fire down 3 times. There's a bomb. Fire L and 1U 1L 
too. Now you have three bombs to take out the purple with. You can place two 
1D1L and 1L of it and fire at the top one, then place one 1L. 3 more bombs 
and a passage through. Fire down, 1D, fire down and now, quickly, fire down 
and go DL-DR for the question and jug and then keep firing down. You can 
outrun the falling boulders, but it may take a few tries.

Shoot the dirt and place a bomb next to each purple square before shooting 
it. The squares will fall and you can get by the purple guy and fire up the 
dirt way. You need some caution to avoid the purple heads guarding the final 
question, but it's more patience than anything. The exit is left of the final 
area and it looks like there's no way back until you shoot 1R of the exit.

36
WIPED OUT
TRUE
REMOVE IT
FALSE

Level 14:

Those shocker guys are pretty annoying so it is probably best to take them 
out right away. Fire 1L, 3D 2L and sneak under the boulder. Fire left a bunch 
so that you open the secret door to the DL. Push the boulder left and when a 
guy is on the bottom, push it left again--you can time it to kill both but 
it's not necessary. Turn right, fire right and shoot left when he goes back 
up.  Push a block right and another left, waiting for the other guy. Shoot 
the final boulder and get the face. Now go up and get the teapots. At the 
second, fire up twice to get the bird. It will take out some boulders. Then 
fire right along the top(back up before the first shot.) You can fire down 
along the right and take out the secret door, then go UL DL over the UR 
boulder and push it right to kill the enemy. Clean up all the jugs in the 
right. Nothing is hidden there so don't get destructive unless you feel like 
it.

Get the jugs above the center intersection then go left. This mess looks like 
a tall order with just ten bombs, but there is a secret door 2R U from the 
junction with the boulders. You should take out the top first, or enough of 
it, then go to the bottom and do what you can there, starting at the top of a 
DR move then going left. You can always shoot the boulders later but you can 
kill them if they fall on you, so be brave until the shovel in the scoreboard 
starts flashing. Just don't get too overconfident and run into an enemy. The 
rest should be cleanup, and the level warp is in the center 4-way 
intersection.

JUDAH
FALSE
CLOTHING
VALLEY
FALSE

Level 15:

Fire all the way right along the bottom. Go back left, fire and go up, then 
keep firing right. You can shoot 2 boulders in a row above you but not 3. 
Don't let your shots get too far ahead of you. Once everything fell, shoot 
left and go under that boulder and fire left then up. You can get the 
question 1U then retreat.
??
FALSE
WEST
TRUE
TRUE
FALSE

Level 16:

Go left. Go up between the cinder blocks so you collect both items as they 
fall. Run right and when they're at the bottom go back UL. Shoot the guys as 
they come down where the rocks were. Now shoot the boulder at the bottom and 
get the freezer power-up.

Push the cinder block right and now go right and up. Shoot left and get the 
3. Then left of the grey heads you have 10 bombs if you shoot from the top 
twice. You can bomb enemies as you leave since there's also a speed power up. 
Mess around in the DL to get the goodies and another question, then (if you 
want) bomb 1U1R, 1R and 1D1R of the radioactive square for a bible. Push the 
cinder block right. You can bomb the enemies as well with what you have. Trap 
them with one bomb and shoot it to finish them off.

1D of the left of the upper enemy's run you will find 3 more bombs. Shoot at 
the top, to the right. Get the UR question and shoot down. You can bomb 
everywhere in the pits to get lots of jugs, or just two down the right side 
for a question. Shoot under the heavy boulder for the last question to fall 
out.

Now you can exit to the left, or you can circle around and, in the monster 
chamber, fire and run right from the DR--make sure you're up against it. 5R 
4D 3L 2U R leads to the bonus level, and you won't need to be quick--you're 
not radioactive until you leave the area.

Bonus level 3:

Again this is largely one way traffic, and you have more than enough time to 
shovel everything out of the way. At the end you may want to go up to get the 
bibles, but that's about all I can think of to do.

If you are very greedy for points of course and you let time run out, 
thinking you can restart and gain a few bibles, you are kicked to the 
questions. But you don't lose a guy.

12000
FALSE
TREE
AI
FALSE

Level 17:

Up right left up to release the enemy, then go down and fire away. At where 
the third boulder was, go and fire 2U then fire 1R. When he is 2L of you, go 
1R and you will drop the cinder block on him. Fire over the bird when 2U. 
Repeat with the purple guys and the next two cinder blocks. You need to be 
quick to get out of their immediate clutches.

L-R-D in the center to release the left knight. Get the silver behind him. 
Release the other guy too. Go to their left and fire down and go up as you 
fire up to leave a boulder hanging. Go 2U when a guy is 2R, then go 1D so the 
other boulder is held. Fire down. Then wait for the other guy and take him 
out with another drop. 1U1L of the purple circle, fire 2D. That releases a 
question. Now in the lower right you can push the cinder block 1R and shoot 
the boulder below. Clean up the gold in the bottom. You can get the remaining 
jugs if you want(push the enemy out of the way first with a cinder block) or 
go to the top bit.

Fire away along the top. You shouldn't need to back up from these enemies. 2D 
2R of the UL you have a question. There's no point in going down the side and 
shooting everything up. Just retreat and win the level.

ALTAR
MOSES
NATURAL STONES
LAW OF MOSES
STONE

Level 18:

Go down the center and get very close and shoot. Everyone should die. If not, 
just avoid the radioactive guy. Beware the stop sign. There's no good way to 
get around the grey guy, so just fire left, fire right to release him, and 
bomb the UR square with him around(go 2D and fire up) and he's toast. Fire up 
the left side and below each purple square you'll get a question.

Get the bible to the right. Go to the right edge and fire down all the way. 
Fire right but be careful as the shots have a purple square to bounce off. Go 
up before it and fire right a bunch. Go right and down and, 2L of the DR, 
fire right. Shoot the entire DR area as well as what is 1U of the bottom, to 
the left, that you can see.

Now go back left and U R D loop through the blue jugs, the clay pots, and 
move U/D to get the coins. You may not get all the gold coins, but you'll get 
enough. Go back left along the top to get the final question, then back to 
the UR.

FALSE
TRUE
HIVITES
FAR AWAY
A TREATY

Level 19:

Blast everything in the starting area but don't shoot the boulder. The first 
question is in the UL. Take the freezer when the enemies are arranged so they 
are 1) overlapping and 2) 2L2U from each other. Then you can place three 
bombs in a row between them to kill them all. You can go left, bomb the 
boulder, and walk by to the DL and then fire left for a 10-pack of bombs 
behind the secret door. Get the jugs and when the cinder block falls, get the 
question revealed. Push the half-bombed boulder right and now use a bomb and 
push the other boulder right. Collect the jugs and push the newly half-bombed 
boulder right. Now shoot your way to the right, and you should get a sonic 
blast under one boulder that will allow you to shoot and find more bombs. 
You'll want to fire down, go right, repeat etc. to get some space. You can 
just grab the last question and exit now, or you can continue to the DR, 
bombing away along the bottom. Push the final boulder to the right edge and 
run from the one that falls above you, then push it right. You can just get 
the first gold if you try, but if not, you'll still have a lot to clean up. 
Get the gold coin and run down and there'll be a bonus level at the top where 
you shoot the dirt.

Bonus level 4:

you can hold down the fire button as you move through this. Again this is not 
really tough but you do have a 3 way intersection where you need to detour U 
R and then try again, and then you need to go along the top and retrace your 
steps when you have the three columns in a row, but as before you still have 
more than enough time.

FALSE
LIVED NEARBY
CURSED THEM
BOTH OF THE ABOVE
TRUE

Level 20:

Even with knowing the way through you may still find this level a little 
tricky. You need to get all the jugs, and you will want tot kill enemies 
along the wawy, which isn't too bad to do. I put periods/commas after each 
jug you find. Obviously you have a lot of shooting to do and you should hold 
down the A button, but it'll only do so much good as you have a lot of bends 
to navigate.

6R D 3R 3L, 3U fire-left. That'll get the one enemy. 2L 2U 2R 2U 2L. 2R 2D 
2R. Detour 3D 2R 2L 3U. 2U 2R D 2R. U R(question) 2R, 2D L 2D R, fire down 
and take out another enemy. 4D 2L 2R 2D 2L and back to the UR, 3L D 2L 2D. 2R 
3D R, 2L, 3D (R L for megaphone) D, 2L U, 3L, D 3L, L 2U 2R, 4L, and 2U 
brings you back to the start.

Now we will cover the UL. 2U, U 2R D, 3U (R L for question) 2L D, U 2R 3D 2L 
D 2L 2U, 2U 2L D. 4D 3L D, fire down and move back and place bombs so he is 
taken care of. Fire right of him for another question and then 6L 2D 2R, 4L 
U, D 2R 2U 5R 3U L 2U 2R 3U 3L, R D, U 2R 3D 2L D L, 2U L and fire up to take 
out the enemy. 3L 2D R. L 2U 2R and there is a megaphone below but it's not 
really worth it. R 2D R 4D 2L 3U(jug and question,) 2D 2L U, 3D R. Back to 
the start which is 5R U of the top remaining jug, and 2L D 3L, 2R 2D R D 2R. 
2L U 2L D 4L.

GREATER THAN AI
FALSE
JERUSALEM
ATTACK GIBEON
FIVE

Level 21:

This one is a relative snap once you know where all the power-ups are. You 
will want to follow the first enemy closely and then turn 4D 3L 2U R. Get the 
shileld and run right. D 2R fire-U for the first question, then follow the 
path some more, L from the DL, then go 1U fire 1L for the lightning bolt 
speed-up. 3U 3L 2D fire-R for question #2, then 2D and fire left--two secret 
doors yield an enemy freeze. Now go to the DR and go 2U and fire left into 
the wall. You can go through if you are pushing left. 2U and fire left and go 
up for #3. You also get to re-freeze the enemies. Up then left and 1U fire-
left. 4. L 3D 6L 2U 2L D gets #5.

Now you don't have time to go all the way back to the exit but go clockwise 
as far as you can. You can sneak around some enemies as they will get 
sidetracked in the holes you created. 2R of the DL, go up to get to the exit.

FALSE
TRUE
LARGE HAILSTONES
HAIL
ABOUT A WHOLE DAY

Level 22:

4R 4D 2R gets one pack of 10 bombs. 2L 4U 4L 4D and you are at a crossroads. 
6D 6R 6L 6U gets another pack of 10. Then 2R 4D 2R 2U 4R.

Now you can take two bombs per enemy, but you don't have to release them all. 
This shouldn't be bad. Just fire right to release him, leave a bomb 2L of 
where he's entombed, and place the other bomb where the first one was so 
nobody else gets released. I'd recommend going 2U then straight right at 
first, and before the firet enemy, fire up then fire down and you will get 
both questions there.

Now you need to bomb in 12 nooks to get the necessary 60 jugs to complete the 
levels. Some questions are hidden too. Bomb right, right, right, right and 
let this guy go. Bomb the nook 6 below the guy on top for another question 
then bomb the rightmost nook. Bomb down twice from there. Now you can bomb 
the top and bottom nooks on the far right. Then bomb the rightmost top nook 
and the one 2L of there. Go back 4L(2 below the exit in the grid where you 
started) 2D 2L 4U 2L 4U 4R 4D 2R.

DID AS A MAN ASKED
FALSE
MAKKEDAH
TRUE
TRUE

Level 23:

Don't shoot the crows at the start, or you will be trapped. You need to push 
them right.  Shoot the top boulders from above, then shoot the right bits of 
mud so there's a path to the bottom. Take everything left of the fallen 
crow(and watch for it falling--it's lethal) and you can drop two down at 
first. Shoot boulders on the left so you can push it right. Two more crows 
should fall down like that. You should shoot one pair once they are below, 
then drop another one down. That will clear the purple squares. Get the 
questions in the UL DL. Get the bombs behind and bomb that entrance three 
times.

Now with the path clear, fire right to clear the lower two boulders on the 
right of the zigzag column. Fire up and duck to the side of the falling 
boulder. Repeat as needed. Then bomb 1L1(U/D) of the two top axes. Get the 3 
and then shoot down the mud. You can take out 4 axes at the bottom and 3 
above that. Shoot your way up and down the next column for two more 
questions.

Now the goats present an interesting challenge but I would recommend first 
bombing the top 3 diagonally adjacent axes, then the bottom two. You can't 
get the jugs while you are next to the goats, so go along the bottom and get 
the bolt. Go to the top, get the bombs and place them at the intersection to 
blow the goats up. You can take your time going down.

Collect what's left and move right. You can sneak in behind the grey face, 
get one bomb and place it, then whirl and fire to kill the face and get some 
jugs. Then bomb out the other niches. You can just leave one jug blocking the 
DL guy if you want, and you can leave the UR guy blocked as well. You have 
five jugs in surplus.

The exit is in the UR and clear, but if you want the bonus, shoot left along 
the bottom after releasing the guy. That will release two cinder blocks. Then 
go to the left and shoot the square that was newly available. do this a fw 
times and a bonus level will appear. Be sure to go up after you fire.

Bonus level 5:

Fire right and go right. You'll be stepping into the crows, but you'll be 
invincible. Then you have a bunch of diagonal running and while you'll need 
to switch directions a bit more than usual, it shouldn't be too bad as it's 
still one way.

FALSE
STAND ON THEIR NECKS
THE CAVE
ATTACKED MAKKEDAH
JERICHO

Level 24:

L D 2L 3D gets you two questions, then 4U 3R gets you back. 2R R D 2R U gets 
you two more(avoid the crows when you can) and the final one is D L D.

for the rest of the level you need to be able to take the teapots as they are 
available. You need to also push one crow to the right so it takes out the 
goat guarding the middle jug on the right. To do this, go 2U R 3U 2D fire 
right U fire 3 right, fire D, and fire to the right edge, then push the crow 
right and shoot it. You can also fire down to take out another crow and up 
again. In general you can take care of enemies if they are 2L of you by 
firing away. You can also goad a goat to go next to or by a crow and then 
shoot the crow. The crow will block a goat that runs at you. So fire L and 2L 
of the crow in the DL, then fire right of it, and let the goat run into it 
and shoot. You get 200 vs 100 points for blowing an enemy up, so if you can 
hit a crow touching him, go for it, but not at the expense of losing a crow 
positioned to kill a goat.

On the left, shoot from above to release goats. when they block up against a 
crow, gun them down. You'll need one jug to fall for the DL goat. In the UL 
you have a sonic blast, 3R of the 2nd-top niche, which makes the rest of the 
level easy once you'v zapped the goats. There's also one along the top. The 
radioactive square at the bottom doesn't hide anything, so don't worry about 
that.

LIBNAH
GEZER
TRUE
GILGAL
THE LORD FOUGHT FOR THEM

Level 25:

Follow the path and shoot the enemy in your way. There'll be a lot of 3-bombs 
to pick up so I will show you where they are. Bomb the 2nd and 5th squares 
from the UL as you go right. Then bomb the 2nd 5th and 8th from top on the 
way down. 3 bombs lost, 6 gained, plus jugs.

Along the bottom bomb above the 2nd-right axe and nip in quickly for the jug 
below the falling cinder, then go down. Fire right to take out the crow and 
get the jugs. Retreat and fire right at the bottom. More to destroy here so 
shoot the crows on the right. You can collect the jugs and step quickly out 
of the way. The crows will fall, and you can oush one to the right so that 
you can shoot it for passage to the jugs on the right.

Now go up the right side and shoot all the dirt. Then when the cinder falls, 
push it into the DR when the grey head goes there. Now place bombs as follows 
to release the botom birds but not the top(wait to place 2/3:)

   .
  . .
 . 1 .
.2   3.

If you can place it when the knight is coming by, so much the better. Now you 
can blow up the top, and don't try for all the jugs, but 3 or 4 should be 
enough. Maybe clear the dirt on the left above the purples to make the 
fallput a little less. Blow up one side and stand below the middle jug.

You should be able to find spots in the center where you can place a bomb in 
a niche and not too many cinder blocks will fall. Try to avoid a chain 
reaction of crows, or just let them fall by bombing an axe under them and 
then shoot them.

You'll need to push the stone at the top off to the side for one 
question(crush a bad guy if you want,) and the other is on the 2nd-left 
column of the middle structure.

The last bit requires you to bomb the bottom purple square to get to the 
level exit.

I've left some axe squares on the board, but this seemed to be the most 
expedient way trough.

FALSE
WATERS OF MEROM
SAND UPON THE SEASHORE
TRUE
HAZOR

Level 26:

Shoot 2R, then 1R and 1U. Shoot the soft boulder to the right twice, then 
fire up and right twice so the boulder falls left of you. Squash the knight 
when he's left. Fire right along the bottom and up at the purples. Hit the 
crossroad (a stop sign) and the enemies actually won't kill you if they pass. 
Go right and you can fire down above the right cinder blocks or sneak in 2L 
of the right. Whichever, up and in the right corner gets you one question.

Fire left/right at the boulders. Get the bombs, go up and fire right. Go 2R 
and push the cinder block left when a grey face is 3L. Then go left, fire 
left and go under the cinder block. Fire left twice. Go right and circle 
around the top. Down, left and now go UL to avoid the goats. Hold DR to avoid 
them again. Use a bomb to destroy the grey head. Go down and get the shield.

Fire D then go D and fire 2L and all the way right. This crushes your 
enemies. Bomb the bottom boulder(you can use a crow, and bomb from above for 
the second) and get the 2nd-bottom gold. Run right after it when the 
explosion hits. Loot the rest of the gold and go back to the center.

Now go to the bottom. Shoot the crows, then the soft boulders. Fire up when 
next to the hard bouldrs, quickly go up and drop a bomb. 1D, bomb and now run 
left after you fire. You'll see 3 bombs briefly. Bomb over each of the 
remaining two hard boulders and some cinders will fall. Shoot along the top 
and push a cinder left. Shoot down the soft boulders.

Now you can get the final question and exit the level. Or you can detour for 
more points: go to the crossroads, fire up and go back. When the knight 
leaves, just work your way left and push the blocks that  fall behind to the 
right. Only go up to reach treasure and for the UL corner. You'll leave a lot 
hanging.

HIVITES IN GIBEON
MOSES
TRUE
AN INHERITANCE
GAZA, GATH, ASHDOD

Level 27:

Get the jugs and fire left for the shovel. Work your way up, trying to knock 
out two boulders with one step up. You can zigzag if need be. Then, after 
releasing the grey head, zigzag down the radioactive bits. There's another 
shovel at the bottom. Move up and quickly go to the next bit, get the jugs, 
and run into the wall at the bottom and move up. Then loop around the top and 
take out the right wall of the leftmost bit, but slowly. Don't let a cinder 
fall left on you. Fire down once they stabilize a bit. This will allow you to 
take out some radioactive guys. The rest will fall when you fire left, go 
left and fire down.

Then, clear out the brick maze to the right. It has a question. Run into the 
boulders on the right and fire into them so you get to where the dirt was. 
fire away to kill off the first guy in the lowest 3x3 chamber. Make sure he 
is going up before you start shooting boulders. You'll want to get rid of him 
as well as the DR square which contains a shovel.

With the shovel, go up the middle and take out the radioactive bit first. 
Start in when the guy runs away. He'll go outside and not be a factor. Get 
the UR power-up too. Then clear the middle 3x3 chamber. Fire and let one guy 
escape. The clay pots will put you over the limit, and you can find the exit 
easily.

TRUE
MOSES
TRUE
31
TRUE

Level 28:

Wait for the guys to come back left, go right and fire a bunch of shots. 
Shoot the dirt clumps for extra firepower. Go left, and left of the cinder 
block, fire up. Go right and then drop a crow on each grey head. If you fail, 
push the crow into the head. There are three bombs under the left and right 
crows each. Fire right and from there fire up and leave two bombs next to the 
heavy boulder. The cinder block will fall, with 3 bombs to the right.

Then start taking clay jugs but don't get next to the enemies. Run along the 
bottom and back. Eventually you'll let them out, and you can shoot them down. 
Now, above the purples, fire left a few times to get the DL gold and silver.

In the very DR kill all the soft boulders(watch firing at the purples) and go 
2U and fire right twice then down. Then get the question, walk and fire up 
and come back. Fire at the two soft boulders on the left under the purple. 
Sneak in under the purple before it falls for three bombs. Then shoot the 
boulder to the right and place a bomb where it was and go 2 above it and 
fire. Replace the bomb and do it again and go right--you will have to run 
down right after the explosion to get into the UR bit. Fire 2R U and now you 
can clear out a lot with your shovel. Everything but the soft block on the 
far left in fact.

You can quit now by just returning to the right center. Or you can fire down 
at the soft block. Then bomb the dirt under the cinder(1L1D of it) and you 
can fire 2L U from where the cinder block was to get the final gold stash. 
This gets you the bonus.

Run and fire up.

Bonus level 6:

Another one that requires diagonal movement but again this should not be too 
hard to anticipate. You get a lightning bolt early and that carries you to 
the end.

GADITES
TRUE
TRUE
BALAAM
60

Level 29

Push the one boulder 2L, then the one behind you right. Get the 3 bombs and 
use two on the boulder to the left. Then take out the DR and shoot the soft 
boulders to the left. Be sure to stand under one and fire to the left and 
down before taking care of the rest. When one cinder block is left, go U R D 
for the 3 bmbs and get the megaphone. Now note you will have to jump out of 
the way after you fire down. Better than that, jump out of the way while 
you're at it. Fire L D L U(duck again) R U and there's another megaphone.

D L(duck) L(duck) go left and fire left at the top, then down. Fire L/R then 
down each column. Place 3 bombs near the purple square and fire at the top 
one. Now you just need to fire up at enemies as they come down, but watch out 
as the notes bounce back and forth several times. My suggestion: fir eup at 
the first and third columns, then down at the last one. Be careful getting 
the questions--you don't have to be RIGHT on line with them to avoid the 
purple radiation, but you need to be close. Also be careful going out!

The exit is under the cinder block on the far left.

PRIEST
TRUE
HEBRON
85
FALSE

Level 30:

Complete the first bit quickly so the enemy doesn't turn purple. Carve out 
the square down, then 2L and D. Take out the purple square to the right, then 
go down and fire at the enemy. Pick up the bird and take out the axe below. 
If you can, take out the enemy grey head as well when it is to the right of 
you, with a chain reaction of crows.

Now take out the secret doors 1L2U and 2L2U of the remaining purple square--
for the second, walk under it to get the note and then get the silver coin. 
This will help you return later.

Fire at the soft boulder DL. Get the question and go up and fire up. Step out 
of the way. Now go left and down for the gold(only touch it halfway--that's 
good enough,) then quickly U 2L and you should be able to get all goodies 
without anything crushed. Then you can move to the next bit when the enemies 
go up. They may make you retreat to avoid them, but take your time. You have 
it. Get the next question and the jugs to the right and fire up to release 
the boulders.

For the next part you will need to push two boulders onto enemies. When one 
is at the bottom center of his turn, push left. Repeat. Bad timing may turn a 
guy purple. Go down for the third question. Then repeat with the knight next 
door and push the boulder that was above it back.

In the final chamber you may need to drop the block at DR because the enemy 
is purple. Then just move to the UL and push the cinder block left. If there 
is a dangerous enemy, drop the block on him to get to the UR exit.

THE GREAT SEA
TRUE
OTHNIEL
SPRINGS OF WATER
TRUE

Level 31:

Get the lightning, go to the end of the path, fire left twice and get the 
question and bolt that appear. Go up so the goat runs at you and come down 
before making it U-R-U. You are as fast as the goat now. This is a good thing 
for the next bit, where you will need to go U L U. I suggest going up, 
holding UL and when you can go up, drop the L.

At the very top, ignore the guy in the UR. Instead, shoot the dirt over the 
grey head. When he falls, get the gold coins and the jug and go down when the 
head is going left. Fire at it when it is in the corner. Then go along D R D 
L and push the boulder back right so you can get the question it was 
guarding. Go to the top to get the treasure and go back down and left. Let 
the cinder block fall. run through the blue jugs next.

You don't need the trailing bolt. You can free the enemy if you want. Shoot 
the left clump. Get the gold and push the cinder block left and then follow 
the curve to the DL corner, getting the question along the way.

THE WATERS OF JERICHO
JOSEPH
TRUE
FALSE
MANASSEH

Level 32:

Fire and run down. Note here that there are dirt squares you can fire at and 
run through. Go R 3D L and get the bomb as you go down. Place is 2D L to fry 
one bad guy. Then get the bomb behind the jug in the DR. Wait 1R of where you 
placed the first bomb and go 2U, 2D and fire up when an enemy comes down. 
That'll settle him. Now rubble clearance in the DR.

Move and fire right for a question. Repeat. Fire left. Push the boulder 2L 
but only go 1L. Now fire/go 3R and then up. Drop 2 bombs in the DL and push 
the left boulder 2L. Go U and R and get the two jugs and the question. Fire 
at the dirt to the right and stay in the UL of that chamber.

Duck down when the guy goes DR of you. Then go and shoot the only open soft 
boulder and get the question. You'll get the jar DR, strangely. Now you can 
get 2 other jugs--you can dip in and get the bottom one if you are very 
careful, but it's too risky. The enemy will go back up causing a small chain 
reaction, and you can go UR. At the edge, wait for the chain reaction and 
duck out of the way. Fire down the right. The enemy may be coming but you can 
hide from him for the moment.

Then you want to fire right when 1D1L of the first cinder block, then go 1U1R 
and do it again. Repeat until at the top, where you get to be invincible. Run 
over to the left. Get the notes past the 5 guys in a row, then on the 
knight's column, shoot left at the very bottom and top. Then shoot the left 
dirt.

Now you're in the final room. Fire down til it's useless. Fire up.  Detonate 
two bombs 2R D from the UL. Get the three available silver. This should give 
you enough to win, so skip to the final paragraph to see about that. 
Otherwise, to get the bonus, fire twice down the center. ush the boulder 
right. Bomb along the top to get rid of stray boulders. Bomb some more to get 
rid of other heavy boulders and shoot the rest away.

You just need to get to the bottom and run along the bottom 3R and L and 
you'll hit the bonus area. If you collect all the gold right away, the 
adjacent cinder blocks cover it. Just loop back right when you see it. There 
may be a way to loop under, over and back but it seems too risky.

FINAL PARAGRAPH: the exit is back below where you started. You can bomb 
enemies if you want, or you can time your run back north past the five guys. 
It is at the middle of the bottom corridor.

Bonus level 7:

Go up and get everything. You only have to fire once to get by since you have 
the speed and megaphone. Later on you get a recharge. You get a bunch of gold 
pieces at the end you can zigzag for. You may miss one, but it's worthwhile 
for your points to go back and get it. These golds make up for the ones you 
missed getting here.

MAKIR
ZELOPHELAD
MARY
FALSE
TRUE

Level 33:

Carve out the bottom. Fire up when one guy goes to the UL corner. That will 
kill them both. Go beneath the suspended cinders to the UR and fire up under 
the right one, then the left. Fire down for the six silvers, then up. Get the 
question that was unmasked. Push the boulder at the top to the right to get a 
question. Kill a guy while you're at it. Shoot the others. Push the 
cinderblock over the jugs on the bottom to the left and get the jugs. Then go 
up the one column to get all of those. Fire right along the 3rd-lowest and 
down, then go 1L and fire down and left back along the 2nd. Get the question 
by shooting its row, then shoot along the top to release those boulders. Fire 
up to get inside and then down. Note those are one-way rides. But you don't 
need to go back out since you're done.

TRUE
TRUE
IRON CHARIOTS
FALSE
TRUE

Level 34:

Fire exactly three times at the guy running away. Then push the purple circle 
and get the crown. Hit 1U1R and 1R of it and push it left. Push the next 
circle right too, off the edge. Now go U 2R of the circle you first pushed. 
Bomb away so you can push the circle left and try to push it onto an enemy. 
You don't need to get any blue jugs here so don't worry about specific 
bombing. Go 2U L of the question and then wait for the UR of the two enemies 
to go right and go R 2D to get the question. Back out quickly, then blow up 
the three axes guarding the gold coins. Now blow stuff up along the bottom. 
1R of under the bottom swamp, you'll find another question.


Go to the UR and get the jugs along the bottom. Lay two bombs next to the 
purple square. Then fire at the lower of the muds. Two more jugs, a question 
and a crown. Use the crown's effects to push the left circle left and crush 
the enemy. Push the third circle you walk under at the bottom to the left--
three more bombs. Push the cinders along the bottom and you will find the 
level gate.

SHILOH
7
TRUE
BENJAMIN
FALSE

Level 35:

Your first job is to shoot everyone around. Don't shoot the soft boulders. 
Fire 1R and get the question. Wait 2U of the bottom and fire away. Easy 
enough. But now without any bombs you need to get to the jugs behind the 
purple squares.

The answer is to push the crows. And make sure you don't push any cinders 
onless you can't help it. Push the only one you can, left. Then there is one 
2U L above where it was. Push it left too. They're on top of each other, so 
pus them down. Shoot them(left one, 3U from it) and now shoot below one of 
the crows that are together, push the other off, shoot the mud and push the 
other guy the other way.

Now for the trickiest ones. The UL is not so bad. Shoot under it and watch it 
fall. Then shoot 1L of where it lands and push right. Shoot under the right 
side and go left. Push the cinder right. Go right. Now you can take out the 
soft boulder and push the other guy left. Push the top left cinder left for 
one question and go 1D of UL for the other. The soft boulders on the right 
have music hidden. As do the left. Go to the entry to the right.

4R 2D and get the question. 2U 2R and shoot 1U so one bird falls. Kill him 
off. Then kill the guy above him off the same way--except shoot from above. 
3L, shoot up, push the guy right. 5R, shoot up, shoot the guy. Shoot up when 
above the damaged boulder, then down. Shoot 2R of the right chute, go 1L and 
shoot up so you can push the other crow left. You can access a secret center 
with bombs now.

To get the gold coin in the DR, carve a path to the bottom hard boulder. 2R D 
2R 2D from the top of the right chute. Also 3R U 3R L U. Push and shoot, then 
fire under the lowest boulder and the bird 1D1L of the UR. You'll also find a 
question under the right-edge boulder. Get the gold. Now you can just bomb 
the left or right side over the knight. you don't need to drop any more 
birds, but if you did, you could make some additional points.

FALSE
TIMNATH-SERAH
CITIES OF REFUGE
ACCIDENTAL KILLINGS
TIMNATH-SERAH

Level 36:

Look right and fire right. The enemies will come in towards you. Gun them 
down. Place bombs on the left side first and keep haking away 'til they're 
gone. Go  to the bottom on the left and grab some jugs. The rest will fall on 
the bottom radioactive guy. Then go to the top and shoot that guy.

Bomb the bottom three squares in the center(ten bombs,) then go bomb the top 
to get a shovel. Zigzag  to take out as much as you can, but you want to make 
sure you get to the UR part where there are the radioactive bits. Then go to 
the right side, shoot the secret walls 4U L then R 2D 3L. Shovel and 
lightning. Take them both. Get the questin just UL of the purple entombed 
guy. Get the one 2U2R of the DL guy and the one in the DR of the small room 
to the right. You can run in and out before the grey heads react. For your 
next trick, carve a path left to the gold DR of the UL guy. Push off the 
boulder behind you. Get the gold and run right. Then get the question below </pre><pre id="faqspan-2">
it. You can pick off the rest of the gold at will. The enemies are fast but 
not particularly devious. You proably shoveled enough wide open spaces.

FALSE
TRUE
THIRTEEN
THIRTEEN
TWELVE

Level 37:

Lots of guys turn purple here unless you stop them early. Fire left quicky, 
get the power-up, kill the guy and fire up and down. That takes care of the 
left. now start pushing the fallen boulders into place. You will want to go 
back to where you started and fire right a bunch(1R is a stop sign) and then 
when the enemies touch the right, fire down and fire up to release the soft 
boulders.  Below where you started ?? is invincibility. Use it with the top 
then the bottom megaphone(you WANT the top megaphone to run out, but fire 
right first before getting the bottom) to take out the enemy in the DR with 
three bombs. You can bomb the lefts to get a bible if you want.

Blast your way up to the top. Go 1D and fire left. 1L fire down.U 3L D push 
2R. Fire left and leave a bomb at the purple. Leave 2 bombs above it. Bomb 
between the cinder blocks and next to the purple. Run and shoot. You don't 
have to do anything special to get to the left, but the final question is in 
the UL of this area. Then you need to bomb your way out and go back to where 
you started.

Or not quite. There's a bonus level here. Make sure you have no stoppages 
beneath the purple above the exit(left and right) and bomb away. Go and fire 
up and then push the cinder blocks to the left off to the left. There's a 
false wall below the first one and the bonus level under the second.

There's also a bible under a cinder 2R of the center, but you need to be fast 
when you get it, or you can't outrun it. Not worth it IMHO.

Bonus level 8:

This has a cute tune on the straightaways, and the desired path crosses over 
itself. DR R UR DR DL L UL UR R UR. Nothing too complex again.

TRUE
48
FALSE
FALSE
TRUE

Level 38:

A test to show off how well you know your trick moves.

Everyone will eventually go clockwise to the left of you, and when they do, 
fire up and go to the top where you can shoot the dirt and get a question. 
Then keep going counterclockwise to get out.

Back at the start, head L U R and when two or three guys are on the top left, 
fire-U R fire-D and L. Return when guys are moving away from you, but only to 
the patch of dirt where you were before. You need to wait to move to the next 
bit UL.

For the next part it's tempting to want to drop the rock on the bad guys, but 
you need to tail the rear one and pass under him and shoot the dirt. THEN, 
when they go back, stand left of the boulder and push it on them to the right 
to get a question.

You'll want to tail the next guy, fire right, and fire left and go left. When 
he goes right, quickly cut right and down and fire right. That is the only 
way to tail him closely enough to get beyond. Then fire up at the dirt below 
the crows. Shoot them and the ones below and clean up on jugs and a question.

Now for the next bit you need to realize that there are untouchable squares: 
next to each square that juts out from the wall, you are safe. So move 2L 
when you can, and when everyone's away, L D. Don't shoot anyone.

For the rest of the level, you need to retrace your steps, which shouldn't be 
too bad. They'll move eventually.

MOSES
TRUE
TRUE
PHINEHAS
TRUE

Level 39:

Weakened blocks are a clue here--they are what you need to hit to find secret 
passageways.

The first part requires speed or you will have to wait a bit. Go right but 
not into the bottleneck. When the two guys arrive, go all the way right and 
get the crown and boms. Use first bomb at the center of the bottleneck, at 
the weakened square, twice. If you don't do it in time, wait below and then 
go in. You can barricade or destroy your enemies with bombs also. You will 
have enough by the end. But leave 3 before completing this first bit.

3D(bible left after 1D) 3R D 2R and get one question. 3L U 8L D L a bunch and 
up for another. Return. Bomb the near weak square on the left. 2U, then R 
through the boulders(U from the 1st has secret door with nothing, U from 4th 
continues) and at the corridor's end, 10 bombs + question 4(3 was in boulder 
3.) Then the next secret doors are 2U and once you get the question to the 
left, there's nothing more left to do, except bomb the left of the triangle 
of single purple blocks on the right.

ALL OF ISRAEL
AS A WITNESS
FALSE
TRUE
TRUE

Level 40:

Kill the two near enemies first. Shoot 2R 2U R U. Duck right and push the 
boulder left. Fire right and up, then drop the boulder right. Go to the UL 
corner and get the bombs before the goat can go after you. Then get it to run 
at you before you release the lower grey head and leave a bomb at the bottom 
of where it can roam. Go in a circle in the center. Release the enemies on 
the right and bomb them. Same for the left. Take the shovel and dig the DR. 
Avoid the axes if you can but basically loop to the DR, go 1L U and come 
back, and just after the tune ends you can probably get the shovel hidden 
behind the silver coin under the goats.

Use that shovel to take out the UR. The most important thing there is to 
release the crow on top so it crushes the knight that comes out. Shoot 
everything else. Once the crow drops, you can trick the goat into following 
you to the right and blow it up. Go to the DR and clean what you missed. 
Shoot down the heavy boulder and the mud so the goat tries to ram you and you 
can get the DR gold. Again, block the goat with a bomb to kill it.

Work similarly in the DL. Kill the UL grey head the same way. Now you can 
actually get the gold in the UL, move 1L and leave a bomb, but it is risky. 
The easier way is to work from 1R of the first crow and go D L shoot 2L and 
push it into the gap. Work the same way for the next two crows but drop down 
1 for the last one. Blow up the right two crows and shoot things so the goat 
will run at you. Then shoot the goat with the left crow. The exit is in the 
UR.

TRUE
TRUE
LABOUR
BUILD
VINEYARDS AND OLIVEYARDS


Level 41:

This level is not bad but you might get a bit impatient at the start once 
you've figured stuff out, and that might throw you off. I find if you go left 
and down right away into the corner, you can go R U R and get the question.  
You may need to wait in the niche for one guy to pass by, or you can just 
complete everything in one motion, going (from the question) R 2D 5L 2U 4L 
2U.

Now for the next part you need to wait for when an orange guy is past the 
niche to the right on the bottom. Then go in the niche, wait, and when the 
purple guy passes and the rear orange guy is past the UR turn, go U R U L U. 
Wait for the purple to go by and then go L D L to run out. Note that the 
purple guy runs twice as fast as the oranges. Therefore, you will always get 
back to as you were.

The next part you need to do in one motion--go U 5R 2U when the orange guy 
goes past, and when the purple guy to the right is in the UL, fire right and 
push the cinder block right. It may not kill the enemy, but it will break him 
out of the tight circle he is in, leaving you to blast 4R for a question, 
then D 3R.

Now you can outrun the cinder block and go 1L or, better yet, fire down as 
you run down. Both ways have timing risks based on the purple guy, so I'll 
present them. There is a secret wall there and as long as the enemy is not 
coming right at you, you can go down and into the left niche, and then you 
can wait for the enemy to come down and squash him when he is about to go 2R 
of you.

Otherwise, go into the niche 1L and make sure the purple guy is not coming 
down the diagonal you need to go up before the next move. Again, you need to 
get past two enemies with one move once you fire left, following the one 
purple almost into the corner and then going 1D and waiting for the other to 
pass, then D and fire right. Then zigzag UR, L and DL. If the enemy is in the 
bottom, wait for him to pass the second-bottom diagonal before accessing the 
exit--or the area below it, as 2R of the exit you have a Bible. Otherwise you 
can just walk in.

TRUE
TRUE
SERVE THE LORD
A LARGE STONE
OAK

Level 42:

Push the crow right when the enemy goes up the shaft to crush him. Once it 
falls, shoot it then push the crow below to the left to crush the other guy. 
Push the top crow 1R then back left. Push the cinder block right, fire on the 
crow below, and push the other one left. 1U1R of the DL is the first 
question. 4R of the DL you have a timer. Work to the right and fire at the 
bottom of the two crows and sneak under.

Blast the last dirt when you can, in order to sneak up and get around the 
grey heads. Now you need to push each crow in the UR onto the cinder block 
and left, then right, to bomb the purple square.

Now bomb the DL dirt and work your way right. Stand under the last square and 
move left and right. Then at the right edge, fire up and go up to catch the 
purple circle. Zigzag to the top(running up and letting go is a bit tricky, 
though you can just touch the purples without irradiation. So you can also 
exit, then fire right, to be safe--but don't fire too fast to the side in any 
case.) You can always wait and stand under the last circle. There are two 
questions here, one in the top row and one in the second-bottom.

Fire at the dirt under the remaining crow and sneak left. Question 4. Get the 
stuff and push the crow right and shoot it. There's the final question. The 
exit is in the UR.

110
TIMNATH-SERAH
NORTH
FALSE
EGYPT

Level 43:

This is another one of those messy levels where you need to experiment, or 
read the save states, unless you have this walkthrough or some maps of 
course. If you fail to get in the very DL, the non-bonus exit is in the top 
center.

Fire left and shoot the crow. Quickly run left for the megaphone and back 
right. Shoot to get under the soft boulders on the right, then quickly go 
right to get the double-note(lean before you fire.) Fire and go 3U. After 
things settle, fire and go right, Then fire left, wait and fire left until 
the gold is available. Get it and fire down and fire/move up. You can now 
probably work your way to the top. Go up and now fire left when you hit the 
wall. There is a question 2L. Go up for the note then to the UR with the gold 
and go D 2L from there for the second question.

1R, fire down, go above the crow, fire right and get the three bombs and 
retreat. Bomb the two axe squares along the top for jugs. There's 3 bombs to 
the left of the right one. Shoot left along the top. Get the gold there. Go 
2D for 3 bombs and go back up.

Now go down when 1R of the center gold. Fire at the blocks to the side, and 
push the cinders nearby to the side away from the hole you are making. Get 
the 3 bombs below. Place 2 bombs in the pit you made--1R1U and 1R2U of where 
you are. This will also reveal a question. Now the remaining questions are in 
the left.

There are four cinder blocks near the top and you should push them to the 
side. Bomb the axe above them. Shoot what you can to push the blocks away to 
get to the question next to the jug. You may want to push the very top cinder 
block 1L before sliding it back right. Once you do this you should be able to 
bomb away or at least use the crow U 2R of the jug. The question is 1L of the 
jug. Shoot down left of the crow to line up the hard boulders. Then work down 
for the jug and fire left. Fire at the dirt so a cinder block drops in. Use 
any remaining bombs to take out blocks below. You should be able to fire down 
the left to get the last question(2U of the DL) and the bonus level(DL). Just 
gun from the side and use the crow.

Bonus level 9:

Another crisscrosser that is not too hard.

SHECHEM
JACOB
ELEAZAR
FAIRNESS IN INHERITANCE
TO HIS CLAN

Level 44:

Blast right and kill the guy as he goes up so that he doesn't turn purple. 
You will get six bombs from this. Use them below to carve out a bunch of jugs 
and also get a question at the bottom. Run the soft boulder into the enemy. 
Use the bomb on the 2nd-left purple circle to get the shovel left of it. Use 
the shovel to clear out the big room. You should be able to zap quite a bit 
going diagonally back and forth. You can go back and forth and back, but on 
the third time through stay near the top. 10 bombs are on the bottom just 
left of center. Another shovel is in the DR. You can probably clean up other 
blocks, then run through the UR and don't worry about the gold that gets 
crushed. Take out the purples of course.

Get the jugs in the DR but don't release the enemies. Fire right into the 
crow. Get what you can as the cinders fall. But some will get crushed. You 
can then open up the left side by getting all the jugs. Your enemies will 
walk around the 4-wide wall above.

You can bomb your way in to the structure with the gold, but shoot from 
outside to hit the dirt(when a guy is walking right above it) and walk in 
when you can and get out quickly. 

TRUE
MARRY WITHIN THEIR CLAN
MOSES
TRUE
AMORITES MIGHT REPENT

Level 45:

Move up immediately and drop the boulder right on the knight. Drop the other 
boulders on other enemies. You can maybe get two, but I recommend waiting 
until the knight is in the DR corner to push the right one right. Bible 1U of 
the DR. You can then go along the top and down through the main 
stretch(question 1.) L 3D 2L D has a secret passage 3L 2U and 1D of that is 
another we'll take later. Follow the paths you can see and go left at the 
bottom(question 2,) then right.

The secret passage contains a freezer which allows you to move through the 
grey heads easily. You can also get the first two jugs on the left of the 
right bit. Be careful and only shoot what you need since your new firepower 
may cause notes to bounce. 2 above the DL, fire 3R and 1L. At the DL, shoot 
left for question 3.

Shoot the one enemy from below when you are on the bottom, get the remaining 
two jugs, and 2L of the other jug, fire down to kill the other enemy. 2D of 
there, 1R 3L (4 and 5.) Now use that secret door you made to skip over the 
grey heads and return. The exit is where you started.

FALSE
TRUE
ISRAEL ASKED IT
FALSE
WOULD CORRUPT ISRAEL

Level 46:

Shoot the lone wall to get a bible, then fire up from there. Fire at 1D of 
the crow. That knocks it below. Push it 2R and shoot it. Then shoot below the 
purple square and 1L of the crow to get ready for the next bit. For the next 
part, shoot the DL of the dirt with the cinder blocks, U R U and push the 
crow left. Shoot the crow. One left now. Go L 2D of the lower crow and shoot 
2U L. Push the lower crow right and the upper left. Shoot the crow after it 
falls and get the DL loot.

Now shoot 1L of the crow and push it right. Shoot 1R1D of where it lands. 
Then shoot left of it and push it right again. Fire down at it. Then go to 
the upper bit. Fire 1R2D and 1R1D of the purple circle, step out of its way, 
and push it right. Get the crown in the right. Shoot 1L of the top crow and 
push it R twice then L, then shoot it.

For the final crow, go 1L of the right and fire up. The third dirt releases a 
heavy boulder. Push it left when it lands, twcie. Then shoot above it to let 
the crow fall. Get the gold in the DR. There are also two questions. The exit 
is just above the DR.

TRUE
PEACE
TRUE
JUDAH AND SIMEONITES
BALAAM

Level 47:

You can't waste bombs here too casually.

Go down and right through the second row of dirt. Shoot your way to under the 
last boulder and then wait for the enemies to be going up, or at least have 
one going up and the other at the top if it is coming down. This is the 
trickiest part of the level, the timing, and you may have to be patient. Fire 
right, push left and go up to get the bomb. Then go to the bottom and keep 
firing left until the second soft boulder. Shoot up at it and get the first 
question. Then shoot your way out.

Now go right across the top row. Under the cinder block, fire to get two soft 
boulders out of the way. Go left and push the cinder right. Push the 2nd-
right cinder block left and shoot right and go left. Push the cinder block on 
the enemies when they run below.

Time to take out the left. Go along the bottom. Push everything to the right 
after you let it fall behind you. Wait until the enemy goes up and then fire 
at the final dirt left and pick up the question.

After shooting the secret door 1U from the bottom, go 3L to the second jug, 
wait, and back right, then fire left. Boom. If the UL crow falls, shoot it 
before you get all the jugs, so the DL bomb does not explode.

Go back through the middle left row, getting a bomb then pushing the first 
two boulders 1L and shooting above. Shoot your way to the right. Now you 
should have enough bombs to take out the purples in the center. Do so, being 
careful not to shoot a crow next to you. For the UL row, fire to under the 
soft boulder and up. Get the three bombs and then push everything 1R as you 
go left. That should allow you to retreat and get the question once you're 
through.

The exit is just DL.

BLESSINGS
SIMEONITES
FLAX
ZARETAN
TRUE

Level 48:

Fire 3L after busting through the top left dirt. Then fire 3D from above, and 
D and L where the enemy used to be. Go back to the right, then down through 
the bottom dirt. Fire 3L, then fire 3D from there and left. Now circle around 
the inner bit--fire down when 1U1L of the center bit. You've finished the 
left. Now fire right when above the right cinder block and get the 3 bombs. L 
3U R. Set a bomb and fire and repeat. You'll have a split-second to get a 
bomb after the second explosion. It'll be just under the cinder block. Now 
blow up the UR part, to the right, and start bombing to the right.

Bomb as far right as you can at the top three times. There will be fallout. 
Get a coin, then bomb 1D of your UR, twice. That releases another coin. 
(Note--you can get more bombs 1R of where you got the first ten.) You can 
push a boulder right now too. D and go U and L to get one silver coin and 
another falling one because the heavy boulder takes a bit of time to drop. 
Bomb twice 2L D of the silver coin. Push right and up and you'll get the 
silver and 10 bombs. Place one where you are. After the first explosion, 
place another bomb there. Bomb the purple thing in the UR so that the cinder 
block falls. Make sure you bomb the heavy boulder that falls to the left so 
the cinder block falls left too. Then bomb down the side. You should have 
just enough.

In the DR, try to bomb things so that you take out a grey head along with the 
radioactive guy. Place the bombs one at a time, 1U1R of the purple.

Sneak in for one gold piece and go back, placing the bomb at the entrance to 
the bottom bit. You can get to the exit now, or you can blow up the bomb when 
the enemy is 1D1R and replace it. Repeat for the next enemy if you want.

Here we are leaving points on the board in the center, but they are 
relatively minor.

ASK THE LORD
BETH-AVEN
TRUST THE LORD
TRUE
LOOK LIKE A TRICK

Level 49:

Fire 2L U and fire left a bunch. Fire up when in the DL of the first square, 
then fire left to nail the final guy. Go to the UR for one question. The dirt 
in the middle of each square holds a question. You have them all now. The 
lowest, 3rd and 5th of the left walls have notes. Get the lightning below the 
UR. Shoot the dirt and quickly go left and into the gap. The goat will pass 
you by. Run all the way to the left, stopping only to fire 2D when 1R of the 
big boulder.

3 bombs are in the DR but there's not much else. Release enemies by firing 
down as quickly as possible, retreating 3L and waiting. You need to use the 3 
bombs carefully. The first should be to blow up the heavy boulder halfway 
when someone is following you. Then get all the silver. Shoot right at the 
first downturn and also 2U from the DR, shoot right. Nip in for gold and run 
away. R 2D 2L 2D. You may need to navigate some enemies running by but the 
main thing is to have most of them in your loop to the right before you run 
left. Place a bomb behind if you need, but the one you really want to place 
is ahead, by the boulder, which should kill it. From there go to the top and 
right. Duck the goat running by, then go up and down to bring it back left. 
Then you can go to the right, fire down and to the DR corner where the exit 
is.

5000
A SPEAR
FALSE
HIVITES
FALSE

Level 50:

JERICHO! the letters spell out. First move forward and shoot your enemies. 
Then it looks like you'll have to place bombs and shoot them when they're 
near, but actually after firing 1U from the DR for ten bombs, you can just 
fire up when 1L of the DR. This makes you invincible. Just don't shoot the 
radioactive guy. Pick up all bombs on the way. This proceeds right, up and 
left. For the big shot that takes out a lot, fire when the first orange guy 
is coming left, or the radioactive guy will be in your way and you'll have to 
use a bomb.

Make your way up as you fire up the left side, or you will get trapped by a 
falling purple. It will however seal off your enemies from touching you. The 
only problem now is where to find the questions, or bombs to keep you going.

Fire down the middle of the J, then blow up the remaining 4 purple circles. 
That leaves three soft boulders to the right, and you can shoot them, too. 
Drop three bombs where the new top of the C and H are. Fire down from the 
created gap and go in for another question. Now go left and fire down to take 
out more soft boulders.

Now right of the R, fire down. Place bombs just right of the R, near the 
bottom. After the third, you can reach down 1 below it for another question. 
8 in from the right and 2U from the bottom row, there are three bombs worth 
taking.

Now the final two questions are in the DR. Bomb the top of the O and fire 
down the middle to get rid of some soft boulders. Then place 3 bombs at the 
bottom twice. Two threes will appear. Fire down when 3L of the edge. Go back 
up and a question will be covered, but just bomb away and you will clear the 
DR of purples. Then kill the soft boulders at your own pace.

Bomb your way to the exit below the DL. You need 3 and there is no easy way. 
Make sure nobody is approaching as you use the third bomb, since you don't 
want a last-second obstruction.

FALSE
FALSE
TRUE
FALSE
ONE

RESHUFFLE

Here the questions reset and each level maps to the mirror image of a level 
from 1-50. The levels are often tougher because:

* you may start somewhere awkward
* there are fewer hidden power-ups
* you have less time
* the enemies go from vulnerable to unshootable to irradiated
* there's more gold to get
* the exit/bonus exit is in a tougher place

Level 51:

~11

This level is much the same as 11 but you have to deal with tougher enemies 
to start. Fire down the center and go 3D and now they will all walk around 
you. Now proceed as 11, skipping the swamp, but getting the question in the 
niche above to the left. Get the megaphone and shoot the 3 columns left, then 
fire up a bunch. Then get the question in clear view, the bible if you 
want(1D from the top, fire right) and the question in the UL(2nd-from-left 
niche) and the gold pieces before what's in the DL. Now get the woman and go 
through the swamp without shooting anything. Push the boulder aside for the 
bonus level. You may overrun the exit once you push the boulder. It's 
actually easier to get here than the exit, which is in the UR as you have to 
avoid a bunch of enemies there.

Bonus level 11:

As this is a rehash of level 1, there really isn't much different, except 
everything is much faster. You can't afford quite as much messing around in 
the WOW! bit.

Level 52:

~9

Fire 2D L D for a question. That's unlike the shovel in level 9. So to get 
the shovel fire D, fire right, 4L and follow your fire. Wait, a lightning 
bolt. Same thing really though. Shoot the soft boulder, get it, 2R U and fire 
and push right. The shovel in the UR falls. Wipe out all the rocks now. It's 
worth it to shoot everything for more firepower. Shoot the top row in the 
bottom part, then move down and shoot left and right, repeat, etc. Get the 
goat to come right after you and go behind him and get the bombs. Go back, 
place a bomb in the goat's way, and fire up from the start of the dead end to 
reveal another secret door with a question. The other two questions are U 2R 
from the DL and left along the bottom and in the middle of 4 single walls in 
the DR. The exit is in the UR.

Level 53:

~4

Push the top boulder on top of the purple guys. Get a question from the 
boulder below, then the crown in the UR. Get the jugs below and then fire 
right across the top. Don't make one shot too many as the shot will reflect. 
Back off to let the guy out and then go back right and drop a boulder on the 
other two guys. Shoot the boulders on the right and work your way up the 
jugs. Fire left at the bottom for a megaphone and then fire left, go up, etc. 
The questions will be in plain sight. Sweep back left and you will find the 
exit.

Level 54:

~15

This is tricky as it takes a little while to clear everything out. And you 
need everything to get $76. You can easily run out of time. Especially if you 
try to chip away at things. But as it turns out, you can level all the 
boulder piles and then sweep in for everything with a speed power-up in the 
UL. Not having the bombs means there's no room for error. The main moves you 
will use in this level are:

* push a boulder 2R when it is under a pile, without you moving from under 
the pile
* go under a boulder column, fire left once and fire and run up, then move 
back down
* shoot a soft boulder, get a jug quickly next to it and run back out

First, fire left, fire 1U, 1U, fire left. Blow through the soft boulder and 
go L, fire-R, push-R D and all the way left. Come back. Fire up and go up. 
Fire right twice. Fire left. Fire up at the two boulders and go left. Wait 
for the drop. Push right.

1L, fire up twice, fire left and shoot the two soft boulders to the right. 
Push right and shoot 2L. Push right. Shoot right. Shoot 2L. Shoot 2 soft 
boulders right, push right. Shoot right, then 2L, then shoot under the 
boulder in the next column. Shoot right, push right, shoot 2 right, shoot 2 
left. Shoot right. Push right. Shoot 2 left.

Now you shoud have a column 3 squares right with a soft boulder on next-to-
bottom, but it allows access in. Shoot the 3 boulders immediately right in 
that column, push right and shoot left.

Shoot left again and fire up four times. Run down and left. Fire right twice, 
push right, fire right.

Fire 2L, shoot 4 soft boulders right, push 2 right, and shoot right twice.

Shoot 1L, go 1L, shoot 1U and go 1L. Hit 2 soft boulders right. Push, shoot, 
push, shoot shoot.

By now you probably understand the MO of 2L, but shoot any soft boulders 
under, and push hard boulders from the left and shoot soft ones. For the next 
column you can push a hard boulder 2R to make even more space. This collapses 
everything to the bottom. Same for the next column.

Go up the left side, get the power-up, go right along the top and down and 
left. Zigzag on the bottom left to clear that and then on the bottom right 
you only have two tricky bits where you need to shoot a soft boulder, grab a 
jug and make it out quickly. Actually, you can push the very top hard boulder 
1R/1L if you are worried. The final question is hidden by a bouldler, but it 
will reappear when you get the jug.

Level 55:

~10

It's not too hard to avoid the irradiated enemies. Just fire R and U to start 
and then go along the bottom. Get the coin above and then go to the right 
side to get all the notes along the side. Get the jugs as you see them and be 
sure to get the coin left of the top note as well. A boulder just below the 
top hides another question.  You can try to drop boulders on the radioactive 
guys but the main goal should be just to carve out space and get the question 
nestled in the zigzags to the left. A megaphone is 1U 1L of it. Get that too. 
Blow away the diagonal lanes with it and then go to the DL where you need 
just a little patience to get through. The exit is in the DR of this area.

Level 56:

~33

Get the stuff below and then go right and clean out the coins and the bottom 
triangle. When the knights are in the DL and DR, fire. You'll nail one, which 
is pretty good. Shoot below the dirt to the UL and then shoot from below in 
the starting tunnel. Push the right ciner block right for a question and then 
use the cinder block UL to crush the knight and then just rampage through the 
bottom. Get the question in the dirt and go up the clay jug column to get 
everything there. A question in the UL is the only thing below the boulders. 
Shoot your way into the UL and then out. You'll see the exit DR.

Level 57:

~3

Go UL and bombs are in the niche. Go back to the center and DL. Clear out the 
secret doors in the corners:

SSS
SX.
S..

Or some rotation thereof. A question is behind each. But don't start until 
the left is cleared out, as you have to save bombs and avoid the orange guys.

Go to the left chamber when the center is clear. Clear out enough so you can 
stay in the middle if enemies come in, and clear things out deliberately. 
Then go to the right. This is what you saved your bombs for. Place two if 
necessary to wall enemies off--at least 3 squares from each other--and even 
if no enemies are hit, they will turn the other way and run out of the 
occupied areas because of the way they rotate! The entrance is back to the 
left.

Level 58:

~1

Here you have a bunch of secret walls that reveal the bibles. From left to 
right: bottom of the L, 1R 3D of that, top of the rotated L in the UR, 5R D 
of that, and then 2nd-top of the right side of the first structure. Grab what 
you can as you trek right, but don't worry about getting everything as you 
need to come back anyway. You can maybe kill one enemy pushing the top free 
boulder right when he is at the bottom of his run. Clear out the far right 
structure(if an enemy's nearby, make an impromptu 3x3 area) and then fire up 
while going through the 2nd-right.

Clear whatever jugs remain and then the exit is 3R4D of the UL.

Level 59:

~20

There's no way to kill all enemies so you have to cycle around them.

2R D 3R 2L 2D R D 4R L U 2L D 2L back to start.

2D 4L 2R 2D 4L U 3L D 2L U L (#1) R 3U 2L R 3U 2R 2U 2L U 3L 2D 2R L 2D L 
fire-D and now run back and 3R D 2R from the UR, firee up. U 2R 5D 2L 2R 2U 
2R when you get started and return to where the enemy was. 2D 2R 2L 2D 2R. 
Return to the start.

6L 2U 3D 3L 3R and wait, then U 6R back to the start again.

Go up from the start now--3U 2L D 3U L(#2) R U 2R D U 2L 3D 2R D and take the 
branch 2R. 4U 2R 5D 4R L D fire-D releasing a guy. U L and go back R 3D when 
he runs by. L(#3) 6R 2D 2L 4R U. Back to the fork where you released the 
enemy and R 2U 2L 3U 3R L D. Go back and R for the jug, R 2D 2R 3U(#4) 2D 2R 
U 3D L and R 2U 2L D 2L 4U R and fire up to releae the final guy. L 3D. 3U R 
when he goes by and U R U 2R 2D L(got 'em all) R 2U.

Level 60:

Shoot your way down and then go shoot your way up the rught side, then fire 
left. Fire the UR of the remaining structure and go 1D. Fire left twice. 2D. 
Fire left 4 times.  Get the jug that falls if it interferes. You can kill the 
bottom guys this way. Now shoot all the way below the remaining guy. Go up, 
fire up and loop around him. Fire 4L from 1 below the top and push right. If 
you do it quickly enough, he's gone. Now clear the rest of the area. A 
question is on the left edge.

Both color jugs to the left are easy enough to clear. Wait for the enemy to 
pass and shoot the crows. You still get some bombs. Don't use them, but just 
blast through all the dirt on the bottom two squares(bottom one first) to get 
to the question in the center of he far left dirt. Avoid 2R of the question 
square as that delays you and time is at a premium. Now go back(duck between 
enemies if you can) and you may need to duck a bit to get to the inner parts-
-try to get the L, the 3-bar and the 4 together on top and pick off the other 
individual squares. The final question is on the 3-wide bar above the L.

Go back to the UL and fire 4R at the 2nd-bottom, then go in and fire U 2R to 
get to the exit where the enemy used to be.

Level 61:

I just concentrated on the center area for the most part. If you are careful, 
you can get pretty much all you need there. First thing to do is go 
immediately left and place a bomb 2R of the chute down. Fire when an enemy 
comes and just turns. That takes out three jugs, and you can fire right for 
more. Place a bomb 1D from the top on the left so you get four axes. If you 
wait for a guy to get close and wait for the jugs to fall, you may take out 
several enemies, even all. You can then bomb along the bottom twice to get 
more jugs and bombs. Place another bomb along the left corridor so that you 
don't take out the UR axe. Then similarly along the bottom to get 4 jugs. You 
should be able now to push a cinder block right from the top.

Fire left when 2U from the bottom. It should take out some crows. In general 
you want to make a big chain reaction that doesn't touch the top bits. Try to 
clear a path to the DL and then get the jugs and bombs over there. Then go up 
the left side of the center to bomb more axes. When bombing the top, be sure 
not to bomb the crows. Zigzag under them to get the jugs before they are 
crushed. If you need a few more jugs, bomb the right. You don't have to get 
85 pieces to win, as there's stuff on the left to clean up. 80 should be ok. 
Push the cinder at the top to the right(you can take the time) and shoot the 
mud at the bottom. Bomb any of the crows and run around for some clay jugs 
and go to the side. Then behind it. Then set up three bombs next to the top 
purple square and walk in.

Level 62:

~47

There's really little different between this and 47 so I will gloss over 
things. Go left across the middle and shoot through the dirt and go left and 
down when both enemies are above. Then go down to the bottom and right--shoot 
the soft boulders above and go 1U1L when you see a question. Get out to the 
center and then get the bomb to the left in the middle. Shoot almost to the 
left edge, push the cinder right, then shoot left and push the other cinder 
left to knock out both enemies. Go back through the middle way.

Go right across the top. Shoot the soft boulder to get a bomb. Push the next 
four left after you shoot them so you can backtrack for the question. 1U of 
the bottom, 3R wait 3L fire. Wait for the crow to settle so you can get the 
DR bomb. Go across the middle. Shoot the soft boulder and go U R and back, 
then bomb the 3 top squares in the center column. One question is to the 
left. Go inside and get everything--you may want to bomb the purple heads 
first just in case. Then at the bottom, go right and when each boulder/block 
drops, push it left. The exit is 1D of the top, 1R of the center.

Level 63:

~38

Very similar to 38 but time is at a premium here.

When the purples go to the right, fire up and go clockwise. When everyone is 
on top or going that way, break into the UL and go L D. When one guy crosses, 
go back as you were to the middle dirt and then U R 2U R when you have time. 
Run under the enemies to the dirt to the right and push the boulder back left 
once they go back left and up the shaft so you crush them (3/5) and hide in 
the dirt to the right. Shoot both dirts in the next passage and hide right.

Shoot above and take out one crow. Then shoot above and take out the other, 
then shoot below. #4 is in the mess. Run along the right. You can go pretty 
quickly here as you zigzag(leave one blue jug that falls by the wayside for 
when you come back,) but wait for the boulder to fall on the blue jug after 
your run right. Remember to duck in t he squares next to the walls that jut 
out as you move to the UR for the final guy. Back up. Duck in the left in the 
corridor with the knight.

The door is behind the boulder you dropped.

Level 64

~32

Again similar to level 32, bombing the two guys in the top center. Then 
burrow in to the DL, push one boulder right, then another. It may help to 
fire in once and weaken each boulder L and U before finishing them off. You 
should wind up with

*
x*
x ****

Shoot the other soft boulders and bomb your way out. Get the two jugs and 
deal with the radioactive guy--go 2L D from the dirt, then fire D 2L and push 
the boulder right to squash him. This may be a 2 step process but he is 
running so fast it won't take long. Start to push when he is above the hard 
boulder. Go into the DR, waiting and tapping D/U to get the bottom guy. Take 
out what soft boulders you can and go UL for a question, then clear the DL. 
Shoot the secret doors going UL under the cinder blocks. Get the lightning 
bolt. Run 2R 10D 2R 6U R and fire to get the question, then go 2L and nip in 
R 2D L and go R 3D 2R. 

The next part is tricky as three radioactive guys patrol there. Just push a 
bomb to block them and fire up at it when a guy is near--and only once. You 
may be backing out a lot to the dirt. Get the question right of the top.

At the jug, fire right, go right and fire down five times so the boulder 
below is almost gone. Then fire as you move down and you should make it to 
the jugs. Kill 2 soft boulders left. Move 1U, wait, 1L 1R quickly. Fire up 
twice to knock out boulders and get silver to fall. Fire right to kill a 
boulder and duck in. Duck out L/R for two more coins. Damage the right 
boulder. Clear the boulders above and the one to the right and duck right. 
Fire up and go up and left. Loop down the right side. You're in. Run across 
the golds, taking two at a time by moving 1/2 above the bottom. Get the 
question.

Level 65

~29

Push one boulder right all the way, the other left, and bomb the right 
boulder. Shoot around the DR. Then shoot the stack of boulders--except the 
bottom one--and the dirt around them. Push the cylinder out of the way to the 
left. Shoot the bottom boulder. The exit will be there. Get the 3 bombs. Fire 
and, if a purple's ahead, duck the rebound until the stripey boulders. 
There's nothing here(well, a bible 1U of the UR) so just bomb the purple on 
the right. Shoot the bombs if you want but duck the recoil and follow each 
enemy guarding a question in the right area before you sneak in. Left of the 
UR is the toughest to get as you need to wait for the UR enemy to go by, then 
D 3L U quickly. Work your way back to the exit in the bottom of the old 
boulder column.

Level 66

~7

Time is short here but fortunately it's straightforward to kill all the 
enemies. A small trick here to start. You need to fire left, then step in for 
a split second and go right, and the annoying orange guy will now walk under 
the boulder instead of being harmlessly grazed by it. Of course, fire left 
when the purple guy starts to go down. The other guys are easier to kill. 
Fire right over the oranges nearby and when the purple guy goes down the 
right side, push the soft boulder on him. Sadly you'll get delayed, but it's 
not a huge deal.

Work your way up to the top, 5L 1D and push the boulder left. Go left of the 
boulder below to push it right onto an enemy. A question is under the DL 
boulder. Now go right and up along the top. Release the guy in the UL, then 
go down and left so you are 1D1L of the boulder. Push it onto him when he 
gets near i.e. 2R of you.

Fire our way down through the mess of boulders, leaving the dirt when you 
can. Along the top, then down for the coin, then down the right and off to 
the left as you work down. There are questions 1R of the center one and 1L of 
the bottom one. Bible 1U of the bottom of the right wall. Exit is back where 
you started.

Level 67

~21

The pace here is faster than level 21, but actually that's no problem, since 
it means less annoying delay. You just need to be accurate. U L D R U fire-L 
in the niche and get the shield. L along the top D 2L fire-U (1/5) and go to 
the DR, right and 1U. 1R you have lightning and 1R 1U of there is #2/5. 2D, 
fire left(exit will be there) and go and fire right. You'll get invincibility 
again.

Go back to the DL, then 2U fire-R 2R 2U R U (#3/5) and blaze right--take out 
the top 1x2 wall in the center ring and, in the right, the UR of the 2x2. 
Retreat left and to the outside and counterclockwise. You may be able to get 
t othe exit before invincibility wears out, but if not, wait behind an enemy 
and run behind him when he starts up again.

Level 68:

~14

R 3D 2R and shoot right and you'll blow up a secret wall. Push right when a 
guy is 1U of the bottom coming down. When he is killed, go back left and then 
push another boulder right. Go up to the left, on the first jug/crow column, 
and fire up at the crow right away when it is free. Fire left at each crow 
and collect what's there. Get the UL jug and fire down the left. Push the top 
boulder 2R of the left onto the knights. Get the DL chamber. Shoot the very 
top boulders in the UL and clean out the jugs. Fire at the right boulder, 
move out of the way and fire 2R of where the boulder was to release the 
crossroad square in the center. Move under the left of the four boulders. 
Fire up when the enemy is below you and step out of the way. Splat.

More jugs above. Fire 2L U of the hourglass intersection on the right. You 
can wipe out all the boulders with the shovel and then you need to let the 
enemies out and then walk into the corners.

You can now get the final question below the crossroad and the exit will 
appear above. If you got that question first, you would be forced into the 
non-bonus exit. But now you can push the hard boulder to your left and enter 
the bonus area.

Level 69:

~22

In general, wait for jugs to fall as they may crush an enemy by accident. 
Also the more space you bomb out, the less chance purple guys can get to you.

10U 4L 4D 2L 2R 4U 4R 4D 2L 4D 2L 2U 4L. 2D fire-L for the first question. 6U 
gets you ten bombs, then 4L. Now bomb niches left, left, down, left(releasing 
an enemy) and left, down, down. That puts you at 3/5, 40/96.

Bomb the left niche on the top, then the top on the left. Bomb the top 
corner. A falling jug reveals 4/5. At the bottom bit, bomb right three times. 
Then bomb between the rightmost bottom axes. Question to left, 10 bombs to 
the right. 69/96. Bomb at the edges of axe-structures next, though you can 
afford to waste firepower. You'll probably leave a few single axes any way 
you move.

The exit is 1U of the top guy encased and you can shoot above him from the 
right, and fire up to give yourself real estate to run around him when he 
breaks free.

Level 70:

~34

A bit easier than 34 to get started. Push the purple block right and get the 
crown. Fire 1L1U of the fallen purple and go down and push it right when the 
enemy is heading right, so he is crushed. (Note: if you are mean, you can 
crush the UR guy too.) Bomb right of the center axe guarding the gold to open 
that area--there are 3 10-bombs right of it.

Now you need to get to 102 gold to win this level so you may need to shoot-
and-bomb at the top. One question is 1L of under the bottom swamp. You can 
fire below the zigzag of hard boulders below the orange swamp/lava to get 10 
more bombs. Run behind the DR guy to get the question DL of you. Bomb away at 
the blues.

Go to the left. Bomb the DL purple square for a question. Get the bible R 3D 
of the UL. Fire across the bottom heavy dirt. Push the boulder on the guy and 
go down and shoot 4 dirts left. Push right and go up to the exit. Go to the 
DR, leaving a bomb 2U. Shoot 4 bombs to the right to make it to the bottom of 
the 2-column and place 3 bombs at the purple bit. Then bomb the purple head 
at the bottom. Shoot into the corner and fire at the crows when they're 
stable and the head is above them.

You're protected in the corner. Shoot your way up and out, retreating for 
another coin, and shoot up again. Bomb on your way up to get the right two 
axes.

Go back and fire up, go up, left, fire and go up, right, etc. Obviously you 
need to stop before the goat gets after you but you can go 4L of the goat to 
mve it left, then get the bombs and continue. Fire up to the top and let the 
boulders fall, then go all the way up to the top and get the bomb and come 
down.

Now you can kill the goats by leaving a bomb in their path. But it is more 
important to bomb the axes. You need to get all axes. You can kill a goat 
with two axes around it(2nd-bottom) by getting him to come left, placing a 
bomb between the 2 right axes, and BOOM when he is 1L. The rest, walk L/R of 
them and place a bomb and walk away. You have 3 more axes over here you can 
take out with 2 bombs.

Follow the purple head and collect the two top bombs. Go to the bottom and 
place a bomb in the DR. Release the enemies last--you can even leave one jug 
over the DR one. Then shoot 2R behind where he was. Then you need to avoid 
enemies as you shoot below each 2-high column of cinder blocks. The questions 
appear here.

Level 71:

~23

You need to do things in a slightly different order than level 23, and you 
can't waste bombs either.

D 3R bomb and then get the jug, R D fire-U*2 fire-D*2 leave a bomb 2U fire-D. 
Get the bomb and play the same trick on the next guy over. Go to the bottom 
and work your way up so the goats run at you. When goat #4 runs at you, run 
2U, 1D, place the bomb, 2U and fire D when the other goat is around. Two for 
one!

Place a bomb to take the DR 2x2 out of the 3x3 axes remaining. Bomb 4x in the 
DR to get to the 3 bombs and now take out the purple square blocking the 
right side. Fire up and push the falling block right into the head. Repeat 
this up the right column and push the other boulders left--except for the 
bottom, which you can just leave. Fire up the left of the 2x1 dirts and go 
3L1D of the right. Fire quickly right when the head is 1U1R and the crows 
will blow it up. Shoot boulders a bunch to get everything there, including 
the 3-bomb in the DR.

Now you can bomb the axes at will. 3 for the remaining in the center and 5 on 
the left. When the enemies release, fire 2R on the bottom. Now below each 2-
stack of cinder blocks is a wall you can shoot. Do so and a question will 
appear. Do this 3 times. Now go to the right and place a bomb R 2D of the 
exit. That will disrupt the enemies' patterns and let you walk in.

Level 72

~24

This is made a lot easier once you see you can grab a jug from above without 
alerting the goat to where you are. Killing the goats here is a weird kind of 
mass animal sacrifice to please The Lord or something.

D 2L D L fire-D and drop the jug on one guy. L(#1) 3U 2L fire 2U and go 1R. D 
fire L. 2 guys down!

2D of where the boulder fell, go 4L D and fire up to release the enemy.  He 
will wander a bit, but push right when he is 1U of the boulder.

Fire up to drop the crow, then fire left. Move right and blow up the crow. 
Get the question 2R of where the crow was(1D from the bottom) and get the 
jugs by the middle goat. Go 3R of it so it goes 1R, then push the boulder on 
it.

Kill the dirt 3D and push the boulder into the next guy. Get the tea and fire 
down in the DL so you can pus the crow 3U3R of the bottom goat next to him. 
Then boom. For the next part, clear out the top 2 rows left of the crow on 
top. Sucker the goat right and fire at the crow. Clear out the jugs on the 
left, running as you fire so you can go through any square that appears. Fire 
to the right into the UR, get the jug and fire down so the goat has a path to 
the crow. Fire 1L of the crow, get the jug to the left, and fire right. 2U2L 
of the goat, fire 2D and push right.

Nip the next jug and now push the crow nearby right and shoot it frin abive 
to kill the next goat. Nip in for the jug below and push the boulder right 
into the goat. 1R 3U of the bottom guy, fire 2D then go 2D and fire left. 
Splat encore.

For the top remainig guy, push the crow 4U2L of him over him and then get 
under it(do this from the left) and fire down to crush that enemy. 

Fire your way L 3D 2L. Fire up so the boulder falls, then 1R of it fire D L D 
and back off. Final guy deadl Now you can push a crow to the bottom, nip the 
final jug, and sucker the last goat into it.

Another question is 3R of one pillar, 4U of another. And the final one is 
along the bottom. But it is behind a purple square. So you need to round up 
crows and shoot them next to it. Enough should be nearby. Pick up jugs as 
they are visible, from right to left. The exit is in the UR.

Level 73

~35

Here a quick start is important as you need to neutralize the purple guys as 
they are created from orange. Quickly go down and shoot left. Crush an orange 
as it comes down the right and you can probably crush a purple as it goes up 
the right with the other crow. You may be able to trap someone in the center 
too. Loop around left of the crow and you can drop it on a purple. Drop a 
crow on a trapped guy so he runs into the path the crow falls. Then drop the 
two other crows near the bottom into the pit. Another crow should be free to 
drop down, so you have a 2x2 of them. Stand back and fire, preferably when an 
orange guy walks by. Boom.

If the orange guy is in a loop then you may need to shoot a crow from below 
to make it fall on him. Remember from level 35 that the (now) left side needs 
you to zap two boulders 1R of the crow before firing up, but you can just 
shoot the soft boulders on the right after the crow drops.

Now get the jugs to release the enemies one at a time. For the first, take 
out the bottom left middle cinder blocks when the enemy is diagonally DR. But 
use another block to take out the other guy. The one 2R of the column is a 
good one. If you use the one in the center it blocks the exit.
</pre><pre id="faqspan-3">
Fire up at the 2nd-right and leftmost cinder blocks to get two more 
questions. Now fire 6L and fire up to release crows and bomb them as you face 
down(3x, push the third right) and blast left at the bottom for 3 bombs. 
Repeat, sort of, down the left chute, but firing up when 1L.

Push more stuff from the right and bomb:
* top 3 axes on the left
* 1U1L of the enemy
(push a boulder right here so that the top crows land on it and go left and 
don't get stuck together)

* top 3 axes on the right
* 1U1R of where the enemy was

Bomb twice to get to the very DL. That gets another bomb. Use it to get to 
the right.

You have 5 crows on the left. You only need 2. shoot 6R of the UL hard 
boulder, then 1L and shoot all the way up. Don't kill the crow, but push it 
into the boulders. Push the next crow in the gap where it was. Then shoot 
along the UL's bottom and fire up and go left to release the final crow. Push 
it right and left to the edge. Fire. You can get the gold and get out. The 
final question is under the heavy boulder at the top. Fire to get it.

Level 74:

~19

This level is an unpleasant mess and you don't have much time so I just 
forgot about what was DL. Thankfully you don't need it.

Fire til there's just 1 dirt to go. Wait til the guys cross 2R of you. Fire 
right. Go right when you can, firing down to carve out space. Be careful 
going into each culdesac, especially the upper one where you need to go right 
and left right after the guy exits himself.

Grab the freezer once the enemies are lumped together(preferably in the left 
of the DL's circle). Place bombs next to them in two places. Move quickly to 
the UR and if you can, drop a bomb next to the heavy boulder and shoot for a 
chain reaction. Then loop around and get the jugs under the cinder--try to go 
right and take both at once and quickly D and DL and get out. Then go back 
and push the boulder back left and bomb it after it falls. Then push the 
boulder left as needed to get all the jugs. You may have to let an enemy 
cycle around.

Now go back, avoiding enemies as need be. Fire left when you get the 
megaphone in the left bit and then fire down when 1R of the left side. You 
may have to go back left and fire down to create space. Get the final 
question. Exit to the UL although you may need to wait for an enemy to come 
out.

Level 75:

~49

A very hard timing level ahead but the first part is straightforward, if 
tedious.

Note I found an alternate solution which may be more pleasant. You can just 
release all the four guys near the end in order, pushing the boulder left for 
the fourth:

..X*...*
..X...X.
..X.X.X.
..X.X.X.
..X.X.X.
..X.X.X.
..X.X.X.
..X.X.X.
....X...

This will make them make huge loops.

Shoot up the DR all the way. Get the lightning bolt. Head L and escape DL. 
Let the goat come back and go all the way left. Now you can shoot every 
square except the ones in the centers of the loops and the enemies will keep 
in their tight circles. Fire along the right for some notes. When the rest of 
the board is clear, shoot the lone dirt and the enemies will go to the side. 
Get the questions, leave UL and place a bomb to the right for the goat to 
walk into. 1L of the boulder, shoot 2D.

The next bit is tricky. You need to release one enemy, then push the boulder 
left after he gets out. Release the next enemy once you see an enemy 1L1D of 
the near purple square. Repeat. To release the last enemy you may need to run 
behind one enemy to 1R of the boulder, then fire down. And to get to the 
money, you definitely do. It's very much on a wire. Once you get to the 
money, move U L fire-L D L U and stop at the 4th-up gold. Another enemy 
should bounce back right and you'll want to go U R. That will crush two 
enemies. You can get the gold now or you can exit and come back for it later 
to be safe. I prefer the second option since there is definitely enough time.

Level 76:

~5

Here you can kill a few guys and nullify a few others if you don't shoot 
indiscriminately.

The megaphone is a liability in some places here, but get it, fire up between 
the S and H, fire down and go right, next to the megaphone and fire right. 
Now when the megaphone runs out, fire 4L at the top between the S and H. Fire 
right when under the guy in the upper bit of the S and run to the UL. You can 
push the boulder on him when he comes around. In the bottom part of the H, 
fire up and you can move 2R 3U and drop the boulder left. Shoot under the jug 
in the bottom of the S and then 1L and 1U of the jug.

Go above the S and get a megaphone. Get the two jugs. On the J, wait for the 
megaphone to wear off and fire down when 2R of the enemy. Shoot all the way 
down but don't get the jug, then go under the right boulder and fire right 
then left. Go right and push left. Squash. Clear off what's left--a question 
is left of the one boulder, and the only other jug is at the bottom. Clear 
the spaces between the J and the O and then clear out the O with fire-and-
turn. The last question is in the DL. The exit is in the UL of the bottom bit 
of the S. Cut your way around the guy in the right of the S to leave.

Level 77:

~45
Get the jugs, the UR one from below so as not to release the grey head. Shoot 
the lower enemy from below, get the left jugs and shoot the other from above. 
Get the questions L and R of his 2-wide walking area, and the jug in the DR 
as well. Bust the secret door 2U of it(when the head goes right) and shoot at 
the grey head when it goes to the right edge. Get the jug that falls and the 
freeze under it. Go up the main corridor and then push boulders on the frozen 
enemies after clearing out the loot. Go to the DR and shoot left and go left.

Fire up three times and ther's another freeze. Use it to run past the enemies 
and to the next level.

Level 78:

~8

Backwards of level 8. 3U 3R 3U R right away. Fire up and go right into the 
niche. Push the block when the knight is below it. They'll both go 1L and 
you'll take out the other guy too. Release the other guy, stand left of the 
boulder, and push it right. Get the jugs but only just touch the ones next to 
the purple guy.

The next room down, the guys move clockwise and you can sneak in there. From 
the DR corner, 2U ahd shoot 4R. Then push the cinder 1L(you can crush an 
enemy and you'll want to, to make it easier to get back) when the enemy goes 
left. Fire up and then aim at the UR and fire when the enemy comes down to 
the bottom. It takes a while, so fire when he is 1U.

Go to the top of the next room and push the soft boulder. Shoot it when it 
falls, then fire right to the next room and push the boulder below 2L. You 
can push it into the enemy or on him. The next room has nothing, so shoot 
through. Shoot down at the left of the next room, then 2R and shoot down. The 
enemy will now loop. 1R and shoot all the way down and right to release the 
cinder block.

Wait for the knight to go in the DL corner and then run and drop it over him 
when he goes back down on the right. Go down and get the last question. Get 
the UL goodies.

Retreat should be no problem. Push the one cinder L when a guy is 1 1/2 
squares above and he will run into it. There's a secret wall in the UL 
compartment that is sticking out. Shoot it and enter the next level.

Level 79:

~18

Shoot 4D R. Get 3 bombs. Shoot everything along the way except what would 
release treasure to fall. 4D 2R D 5R U(#1) 2D right all the way. #2 is in the 
DR. There are more bombs 2U2L of the sole cinder block in the left. But you 
will want to clear the center area with the purples first of all dirt. Then 
place 3 bombs above where everyone's milling around. Repeat. You should kill 
5 or so. Roll the cinder block away for #2. Climb up and wait for the enemies 
to pass back left.

Now you need to place bombs to stabilize the cinder blocks so you can get 
EVERYTHING in the left. Go to the first column, place a bomb, 2L, place a 
bomb, D, place a bomb and get out. Go up and down the next loop, placing the 
equivalent of the second two bombs. Same for the third. In the silver coin 
column, place bombs at the top. Then get the gold coins. You have to push one 
cinder block right once things quiet down.

I used too many rather than too few here but I wanted to make sure of things 
and be illustrative. The first loop needs three bombs, and it is worth 
pausing a half-second to place them. Once you've cleared everything, the UL 
exit should be available.

Level 80:

~42

Push the crow 1L, then push it over when the guy goes into the niche below. 
Shoot that crow and drop a crow right onto the enemy. Shoot it and two others 
by the purples as in 42. Get the question. Get the time in the DL. Blast the 
crows and sneak under. Blast the dirt and run U R U when you can escape. 
Shoot under the UR crow and push it left. Get the stuff in the UR. Shoot crow 
#2 and try to get a grey head with it. Get the gold coins and push the top 
crows onto the cinder then left. Clear out the circles as in 42. Push one 
cinder block back right and go into the DR.

Level 81:

~43

Fire and go 2L 2U. Fire R, fire/go U R 4U. Go 2R for the question then 3L and 
go up and left along the top. D 2R(#2). Then right along the top. You'll get 
3 bombs alog the way. Take out the stuff DL of the top axe, letting the 
cinder block land on the 2x1. Fire 2D to get question 3. Then U fire-R. You 
can push the cinder that falls on it left. Reach down for the gold too. Bomb 
the 3 axes along the top. Push the cinders in the UR to the left. You may 
wish to bomb the crow ~5L5D to send a bonch of others left. Shoot down for 
the jug and #4 is right of there. Fire down, go up and fire right. Fire to 
the right edge and you can get 3 bombs here. Fire down and keep doing so 
until the crow flies in. Use the crow to take out one or both of the heavy 
boulders.

Two axes are left. There's an easy one in the UL. You can bomb 2 above the 
near axe, push the cinder block left, and then blow up the axe. Then go 2D 6L 
fire-U fire-D D fire-L and L. Fire-L a bunch so you hit the crow. Then you 
should be able to fire and push your way left to the exit.

Level 82:

~6

When the enemy comes out of the loop to the right and is 4R D of you, push 
the boulder right. Then clear the DL out and hit the secret door D and L of 
the two kitty corner boulders. When a guy is 3L 1U of you, push left. Then 
loop around to right of the dirt room and push right when a guy is 4L D of 
you. Get the bombs on the far right and then take out the stuff at the top. 
It's possible to trap or run over a guy with the boulders, and you can time 
it again. But the important thing is to get someone trapped and get #3.

Blow up every bit of the swamp after you shoot it. Then go back left. Bomb 
the entryway to the lava when above, so that any followers bounce away. Keep 
dropping bombs in the lava and move left. 1D of the UL is the final question. 
The exit is in the DR of the board, L 2U.

Level 83:

~27

Go left after getting the jugs and fire a tone until all soft boulders are 
cleared. Go up and when the knights are in the UL, get the bombs to the right 
and exit. Bomb the entry to the purple stuff twice, making sure you damage 
the enemy as well, but don't let the knight get in there or he'll go 
radioactive. Before the third bomb, get the lightning in the DL and then run 
3L and 2U after retreating from the bomb and shooting--you need to run left 
right at the explosion to prevent the purple from falling on you. Get the 
shovel in the UL and then clear out this chamber and the one below it.

If you are very fast you can go up the heavy boulders and down the radiation, 
but probably stop at the top to recharge. Also fire right to get the purple 
head out of the way. Take out the jugs and then go back and get the jugs in 
the square on the left. Then bomb the purple square at the bottom for 
question 4.

Now clean out the four squares on the right of the last column and then shoot 
each of the two dirts below. That makes a bunch of cinder blocks fall left 
and then you can shoot down the blocks on the far right to get to the exit. 
That way when the enemies go up, they will loop left of you. Then fire right 
of the cinder columns, until only 4 walls are left on the right side. You 
should see a question. That's #5. Get it, then go R 4D L.

Level 84:

~2

Purple squares block the drops you remember from level 2, so let's mix it up. 
4R 4D 3U 2L D push-R. Fire down when 2L of the fallen boulder, then 2D R D R. 
Fire 2D and drop the block when the enemy comes up. Burrow 4R from the main 
tunnel down to take out the enemies to the right, then get the question under 
the boulder. Fire 2D then 2L and then push the heavy boulder left to get rid 
of the enemies. To the right edge, 3D and shoot 2L. Crunch that guy into a 
corner. Another question is below the main shaft.

1U from the way you carved right, then secret doors go R U R D L D R U R and 
5U. Shoot right and get the two gold below. Fire down and up at the midpoint 
(1 1/2 under the intersection) and run up and out. Then when one guy dies, go 
right and fire up.

Go to the left of the upper bit. Fire left to let the guy out. Fire at the 
purple head so he goes faster. Get the UL gold. 2R 2D 3R 2D 2L 2U 3L R 2D L 
2D 4R D R L 2D 2L U 2L 2R 2D shoot-L and now U 2R D and you can fire right to 
get behind a boulder that will fall. Then you can go back left. There are 
ways to crush an enemy with a boulder and the best is to pull the one in the 
center right. This gives you a free hand to go to the DL. Then go back to the 
center to advance.

Level 85:

~30

Fire down and get the question. Fire up and duck left. Fire right to get rid 
of the dirt and go 1 1/2 D, U R. Then R 1/2 D U L. That takes care of that 
area. You can kill the two enemies here by getting the bomb and, when they 
both hit the crow, firing at it. Get the treasures after you fire at another 
crow. Go into the purple guy's lair and use a bomb. Now start pushing R when 
a guy is 1/2 away from the left. Fire down, then go left and fire left to 
sneak back under the boulder. Again push left to squash the other guy. Push 
the heavy boulder left and shoot the soft boulders above. The squares right 
of the DR softie are false. Now go down to release the purple head. Take 
whatever jugs you can.  Eventually the head will go to the left up or down-
left and you can drop a boulder on it to kill. Before you leav, shoot the 
block between the top cinders, so you can run back leftr when you're done.

Shoot the softie and approach the room with two enemies from the DL. When 
they move above, get the question. They'll then crisscross. Shoot up to 
release the boulder on one of them. Stay in the DR and immediately move left 
when the damage is done. Release the other boulder and fire right. Drop a 
boulder below and wait for a guy to irradiate. When he moves up, drop a bomb 
on him. Then get the question below. Walk right and get the next gold coin. 
Drop a boulder right with a guy in the UL. Go left and repeat another drop. 
Get the question. Get the next silver. When someone is in the UR, push the 
boulder right to drop it on them. Grab all the good stuff. The exit is in the 
DR.

Level 86:

~37

Fire L, go 3L. When guys are 2L, shoot up and down. It will kill three of 
them. Fire left and up at the soft boulders, then fire down at one. Push the 
remaining top one left and, when a guy is in the DL, off the edge. Get the 
top water jugs. The remaining guys aren't bad to trap, Fire up and down when 
they are 3R, though if you mess up you can still push heavy boulders over 
them. Get the goods at the top. Fire down from the 10 bombs twice. Get any 
remaining jugs. The bottom one freezes enemies, so get that last. Get the 
megaphone, shoot left and duck up.

Try to shoot down in the DL as shots rebound. Tip cinder blocks over to 
squash or trap the loose enemies. Get the megaphone and go left. Shoot and 
duck. Run and fire up and wait. From the UL fire right and down. Take out 3R 
D and push the heavy boulder left, then take out the near soft boulder. Fire 
at the soft boulder and run under for the gold. Bomb away to kill the two 
boulders and one purple. Do the same for the 2 hard boulders further down. 
Whenever you see 2 hard boulders, bomb em. Shoot soft boulders so cinder 
blocks/purple fall. I had to really bomb the right edge but I had excess 
bombs so it was ok.

Get the last question in the DR and shoot/go 2R. Tip the cinder block off and 
go right and enter the level warp.

Level 87:

~31

This speed level cleverly mirrors the more deliberative 31.

Zip up to the UR and push the cinder block left. Run quickly around it so 
that you can get the blue jugs it would otherwise crush. Backtrack to shoot 
from below and free your enemy. Get the blue jugs--and the timer in the niche 
2R of the L at the bottom--and go 1L at the top. Get the question behind you 
after the cinder block falls. Work your way around, and below the purple 
face, wait for it to go left then go U L U. Shoot above when the purple guy's 
in the DL to release the gold coin. Crunch. Get the lightning as the purple 
head goes down and release the cinder block on his head.

Get the jugs at the top, fire left and let the enemy go right. Come back to 
get the shield that is 1U1R of the goat. Get the bombs and then shoot the 
crows. Place each bomb when you get in view of the goat. Duck under the final 
goat, go 2L and UL and L and D.

Level 88:

~28

Get the left notes, then the right, then shoot all the way right and push the 
boulder left to nail the enemy down. They are irrelevant now. Fire down to 
kill the soft boulder and fire down again. Let one hard boulder drop, then 
block the other. 2D R quickly and then start shooting soft boulders til you 
can't. 1R, fire down, then push the soft boulder right. 3 enemies and a 
question! Shoot the boulder. Go 2R and L quickly so you get two jugs. Then 3R 
2L so the above jug doesn't fall. That will crush the enemies. Shoot 3R for 
the DR treasure store.

Fire up and get the jugs, then fire 3U from 1R of the buried cinder 
block(secret walls) and push a soft boulder 1R when the enemies push away 
from it. Now go left of a crow and wait for the other guy to come out and 
drop the crow on him.

Fire up the right long column and let the hard boulder fall. Then shoot one 
soft boulder to the right when you return. The cinder block falls left. Push 
it down the chute. Bomb the DR dirt to reveal a question and shoot a passage 
2R U of it. The lightning isn't necessary. Shoot a soft block to make it 
left. Push the crow 3L, fire down and go down. Push the cinder block right 
and get the shield. Blow up the crows to the left. In the UL, shoot and run 
at the soft boulders to get under the purple and get 3 bombs. Fire at the 
soft boulder to the right and place a bomb 1U of it and on it. Fire. Move 
left immediately and fire/go 2L U. That gets you a shovel you don't need. Get 
the treasure and the question just right. The exit is in the far right of the 
long horizontal hallway.

Level 89:

~40

Go and blast 3R. Then shoot right 4x to take out part of the wall and push 
the soft boulder 1R and when the enemies are all about to be below. Fire down 
at the bottom of the column for a question. Get the silver coins and the UL 
question. Now go along the bottom and be 3L of the goat. Weaken the left 
boulder and shoot right and then shoot left and go left. Worst case, you make 
it left, shoot a bunch of boulders and crush the goat. Get the silvers in the 
center.

Take the UR next. Release the enemy and go up the side, fire 2R, D, then fire 
and go R so you're under the crow. Fire 2R, go L and push him right. Go 2R, 
fire 2R and go left and push right. For the last bit, fire 2R and go down. Go 
2R, fire right and go left. Push the crow one last time. Blow up the two left 
crows and get the goat to come right. Blow up the right crow.

Now you can fire down from 1R1D of the center pillar, get the gold, go left 
and place a bomb and go up. You don't want to go much right before 
retreating, but if it works you can fire down and kill the evil head. Repeat 
for the DL. But go to the DR next. Fire all the way right for a silver coin. 
Fire down for ten bombs. Then fire down as you go back left, then take out 
the lower winding bit going D from the center. Then bomb each purple square 
for a question.The enemies are wandering around, but the next part moots 
them.

Take out the center pillar.  Go get the coin in the inlet below and get the 
coin in the UL of this area, then go below and get the coins and question--
and go right-left again to get the exit if need be.
Level 90:

~39

Back up to the right so the enemies can run by you. Get the bombs and hide 1D 
o where they come back to the left. They'll go up. Bomb the weak square to 
the right twice. Fire down quickly and make your way right, with 3 secret 
doors to the right, before leaving a bomb at the bottom. Then go back left 
and carve out the dirt for #3. Now go back up and you should have the time to 
go 3L 1D to wait for the enemies and let them by.

Go to the right and place 3 bombs 1R1D of the UR weakened square. Fire 2U 
from it and right to get the question and come back. Place a bomb over the 
next weak square to the left and get moving down that secret tunnel. 2U 2L 
(exit=U) and place a bomb to turn them around. Hang out in the right and when 
they desert the left, place a bomb between the three squares and you'll 
reveal the final question. The rest is easy.

Level 91:

~41

When the orange is UL, follow him U L U R U. Then go D R D R. When the two 
guys going up in the middle split, follow the right one then go U L D L. Get 
out by following another guy.

Go up and follow the purple guy when the orange is at the bottom, then follow 
the orange around. When the purple guy to the left is at the UR, fire left 
and push the cinder block left. As in 41 you may not kill him but he'll 
wander. Under the cinder block(get the question right of it first) go and 
fire down. Go right(#4) and push the block left when a guy is 1U1L. It's 
worth the wait. UL R DR and now return.

Follow the orange then purple along the top, and go into the UR corner to 
escape the last bit. 2D L 2D R 3D and wait as you did before to get to the 
exit where question #2 was.

Level 92:

~50

Oh dear, everyone's radioactive. Move left and shoot when the guy turns left, 
then move as far left as you can after you get the 10 bombs. Place the bomb 
when he turns back. Repeat twice. Then move left and do this again. It's 
worthwhile to wait to make sure of your timing(for the first two bombs) if he 
is tightly trapped, as if you shoot too soon it will cost you time to 
backtrack. The bible is 1U1R of the DR, 10 bombs 1U and the freeze 1U3R(get 
it when the above guy is near the left,) and now shoot the mud but don't fire 
any extra shots--they will rebound.

I had 26 bombs for this final bit. It's a bit different from level 50 as the 
questions are more towards the inside. But they are each 4 left or right from 
each other, which can help you remember. Also, don't shoot too happy or your 
shots may bounce off the purples if a soft boulder disappears. The first 4-
column, go down and fire down, twice. When you are 2D of where you started, 
fire and the purples will drop in place. Bomb, stand back, fire and move 1D. 
Repeat twice. You took out seven circles--not bad. You'll use this technique 
again soon.

Fire down at the next 3-column over and eventually a 3-bomb will be revealed. 
Bomb in the recess three times and then fire at the soft at the bottom. Get 
the questionb that appears. Dispose of the next 4-high as before and now you 
can take out 6 purples with 3 bombs. Again a lot more to shoot. Again, just 
keep hacking away at purples. There are plenty of refreshments of ten bombs. 
Just try to bomb in a niche of purples when you can. Shoot whatever softs you 
can and note where the last question was.

There's an emergency ten bombs in the DL.

Once you're done you need to go back. You should have an abundance of bombs 
and not too much time, so go along expediently and place a bomb right when 
you see an enemy. It may not get him, but it will force him back, which buys 
you time. Again, you want to try to shoot them when they are going back 
right.

Level 93:

~13

You need to use your shield expediently here. Fire left. 1U 1L(yes, secret 
doors) and go leftish. There's a secret door at the edge. Push the cinder 
left and then go up and shoot the crows. Stop before the last cinder block so 
you can push it onto the enemy. Go back up and left and crush the next guy 
the same way. Fire right and push the block 1R and fire up at the jutting out 
wall. You can't kill the UR guy(I don't know how at any rate) so just wait 
for him to go by and then go DR and blow up the crows. Your shield probably 
almost expired by now.

Follow the crows' path for a question, then R 4D L and fire 3D. Get the bomb 
and the ones 1R and 1R1U of it. Then shoot the dirt and get the question and 
pull back. Stand kitty corner of the orange guy and juke him out. Then go 
left and 1R of the purple you have a secret door. Shoot it and use your three 
bombs there.

The guy behind will go down. Run past him. Fire/go 2D R D and fire/go L and 
all the way down. Bomb each purple circle and for the last one, bomb when a 
guy just turns back. Walk quickly UL and fire up the dirt shaft. If you don't 
have the time, hide 2R of the bottom. The enemies will miss you. Use patience 
to get the question in the center and the secret door D 4R gets you out. You 
may need more patience for that. 2R1D of the lone cinder block you have a 
secret door. Then D 2L of there, and then backtrack to the start.

Level 94:

~26

You are stopped right away. Push down to get out of this mess. Work D L D and 
fire 2D to kill 2 boulders. D fire-R fire-L L. Push the bird right when the 
guy is at the top. Fire up to get out. Get the bombs 3L U of the start(secret 
door) and slide in 4R of the left edge. Take the stop sign penalty and get 
the left question. Go to the top and shoot under the cinder blocks to the 
left and when the enemy is 3R of the shaft, push the cinder block right. 
Shoot under the 1st cinder block above on the right and when under, shoot 
right some more. Get question #2. Now if you go UR you can place the horn 3L 
of the question. That nails two goats. Get the lightning on the way back once 
you can see the purple guy. Run right, take the penalty for question 4 and 
run 2L D. Fire down, then 2L and 2R.

Slam into the purple guy when he goes to the left edge. Then fire over the 
blue guy as he turns down, go 2L D and push right. Clear the DR. Use a bird 
to blow up the boulder, then bomb from above. Go 1U of the bottom cinder and 
then D L R D. Get rid of the other gold coins.

In the bottom bit, go 1U of the top crow and shoot L D L. Then push the crow 
next to the purples. Shoot. Go across the top and down at the edge. Fire 
right and lay horns across the heavy boulders. That opens another space. 
Shoot left and down. Keep shooting down, go down and shoot left. Now back to 
the intersection. Fire up and let the purple guy go. Now just get the jugs as 
you find them and go along the bottom, going up for the jugs. At the right, 
fire up twice and then go right twice, L U R and get the shovel. Go to the 
exit. It is in the DR. You'll get there just as the boulder falls.

Level 95:

~36

Get all 4 clusters of bombs. Fire right when a guy goes down to the right 
below you. Bomb the right side. Bomb further to the right when you can. Get 
the jugs and go to the bottom. Nip in for the one next to the guy--wait just 
a little--and back off 3R 3U. He'll get crushed. Watch the corners as they 
stop you if there is no jug there. If you are lucky you can kill the second 
guy but don't count on it. Clear the right.

Now clear the top bit of the center. You can make space by taking out the 
right two dirts and then you need to place three bombs along the top. Don't 
worry about purple guys you may produce. Get the shovel when nobody is coming 
up the UR. Then zigzag up and down the left bit. Try for the UL where you can 
get to a question, then retreat with hopefully only one or two circles 
escaping.

Carve out a 5x2 square in the left and then be sure not to wait at the bottom 
right of it(stop sign) but rather from the UL, 3U R and U 3R are secret 
passages that reveal a shovel and lightning. Don't drop a purple on the enemy 
below. That's your ticket out of here.

The road back after you get the speed and shovel is tricky. You may run into 
a stop sign. I can only advise you to go directly UR to places you haven't 
cleared and release the UR purple guy and get out. Get the gold and the 
question behind it in the UR when you have the time, and then do similarly 
for the DR. Fire left along the bottom to release the purple heads. A 3-bomb 
appears, so you can take them out when you want. Sneak back down to fire in 
after you let the first one out. It's best to pin them on the right so the 
ones behind them can only go L-R. Place the final bomb 1R of the DR so the 
last guy has no hope.

Once you get what's in the DL, get out. Shoot the bottom five squares and 
retreat and then when the guy guarding the exit walks out, you walk in.

Level 96:

~16

Push the boulder right when the lead guy is about to go into the bottom hole 
above the jar. Some treasure gets killed, and one guy always survives, but oh 
well. What you need to do is go down and left so you are under the cinder 
block before itgets to the bottom. Then go D fire-L L. Then go 1/2 left and 
up, then down. There's a secret wall right of the cinders. Shoot it and push 
left.Then go under the two cinder blocks and down when you are between them. 
Swerve and fire left if need be. Make sure you get everything. Secret door 
3U2L of the soft boulder gets #1. #2 is easy enough too. Fire up when the 
knights are above. Split them and get #2, then fire right for a bomb. Run 
behind them, then L 2U and behind the other guy. Then fire right and stay by 
the one dirt remaining. When a guy is in the UL, fire right and go 2R and 
drop the bomb. 2L, fire right and fire all the way right for a question. 
Follow the top guy 2D L and go 3D to get out.

Use three bombs to take out the UR purple. Go left to the crows. Don't shoot 
them. Instead, fire 4D and then push the one boulder all the way right. Fire 
1D1R of the other boulder and wait left of it for the other purple guy to 
move down next time he comes over. Fire D and L of that when the purple guy 
goes back left. You can run a boulder into him now. Go 1R of the left and 
fire down then up continually so a crow will fall in the one hole. Shoot the 
pits to the right and shoot below the UL crow and push it right. Then shoot 
below the now-leftmost crow on the top and push it right.

Clear out the pits you see. Fire up the left side for a question and then 
fire under the crows from the left so you can push the left one left. Fire 
under the hard boulder and push it left. Shoot the crow from above, then the 
boulder in the pit. Fire up to bring down one crow to the pit, then the 
other--push it right. Fire from above. Bang bang. All done, no bombs. Still, 
for fun, get the bombs in the secret door right of the pillared area--where 
the top boulders lined, south in the dead end.
 
Level 97:

~48

Note: shovel in DR and I am not sure of the best way to get to it.

Shoot the bottom of the left wall. Get the 3 then bomb the left niche above 
twice and get the 10. You don't have to go too far in. Bomb in the niche 
above the cinder block. Push a boulder left in the middle and the top one 
right. 1/2 D, 1/2 U for gold. Then bomb the middle left twice. Then slide in 
for 2 more silvers. Push the top guy right again. Two more bombs in the 
middle left. Get the silver and stay there. Place a bomb there and 1D. Shoot 
then bomb the purple. Bomb 2R D of the cinder block. Bomb down the left side 
then bomb the purple square, U and UL so you don't lose 10 bombs.

Get the bombs and gold and run out. Bomb the enemies--stay in the middle and 
bomb in the middle and fire when they're near. Now back to the right where 
the questions are 2(U/D) 2(L/R) of the center. You'll want to get them 
without tripping the knights into action.

You should have 20+ bombs and now what you need to do is, on the right, 
create a 5-a-side square in the UR that you can let a purple chase you around 
in, clockwise. Fire right to release him then place a bomb. Detonate it when 
he turns from it and then go 4U 4R 4D. Place another bomb in the DL, 
detonate, run away, and try again. Release another guy. Now at 1U1L of the 
inner bit, fire down and bomb. Retreat and fire right Go back to that square 
when the guy comes up from the bottom and bomb again. Repeat a third time. 
Release the final guy. Do the same thing but 1L 1D of where the center was. 
3x kills an enemy and gets another lesson. Take out the UR and DR at your 
leisure.

The bottom part once again seems irrrelevant, but I think you can push the 
crows down onto it.

Level 98:

~17

U L R U wait and then blast to below the left cinder block. See 17 for how to 
dispose of the purples. Just fire right to make a space the first time. Fire 
down to let the bird out so the enemy doesn't escape from the UL yet. Blow up 
the birds if you want. Fire right along the top and release one guy, then 
come back and release another. Smear the boulders and dirt above. Work your 
way DL so you are 1U1R of the enemy and can fire left to squash him. Then 
shoot the dirt to reveal a question.

One guy turned purple--oh well. Release the UR guy in the center and then the 
DR. Fire under the left of the triangle of boulders and dodge and then go to 
the top and push it right for ten bombs. Bomb the structure twice to get 
question 3. Release the final knight and get his silver. Above the fallen 
cinder block, L D L and push the cinder block right. Fire left, place bomb, 
fire left. This releases the UL guy. Get the question in the UL corner after 
shooting dirt. Then go to the bottom. Hack out squares 2-wide at a time. Bomb 
1U1R of the DL. The final question! The exit is just above.

Level 99:

~46

The enemies thankfully don't make things any trickier, just a little more 
inconvenient. I left out "make sure no one's around before X" but do be 
cautions.

Fire right across the top row of 3 boulders. Go under the crow then push it 
left. Fire 2D when 1U1L of it. It will fall. Fire 1R of it. Push it left. If 
you can wait for a guy to be 2L of the purple it falls on, great. Fire down 
at it.

Fire up to the left bit of the U. Push the circle left and get the crown. 
Fire the right bit of the U and push right. Dismantle the bottom bit for #1. 
Push left when a guy is climbing up the triangle below, middle stair left. 
Shoot the two crows. Go to the top, fire left and push the boulder left then 
right. Then fire under the crow. #2 of 5 is in the DL.

Get the jugs on the right. Shoot the isolated right square for a bible. Fire 
up from it and 1D of the crow. Push it left and fire at it to weaken the 
purple. Shoot the stuff right of the crows so a purple falls. Fire 3D of a 
crow and go U L U from there. Push the crow off and shoot it. Shoot R 2D of 
the crow and right of that, then push the crow into the knight, who will be 
crushed in the crow's final fall. Shoot the crow to bust the purple for good. 
Fire under the right 2 squares in the center cinder block structure for #4. 
Fire down left of the 3-high soft boulders for #5. The exit is the secret 
door you opened in the left.

Level 100:

~44

3R U 2L D and sweep right once everyone's up. Fire up at the right spigot and 
be ready to go 2L so you can push stuff right. But first fire right to 
release the knight. Make sure everyone will be on the right and fire up and 
duck left. Now shoot the soft boulder and push the heavy one right, then push 
the heavy one above left. Fire down and crush the knight to the right. Fire 
down, fire left and cross. Push the heavy boulder right and into a corner 
again. Push heavy boulders left and right and then right when you can til 
there's nothing left you can push.

Fire up on hte left and start pushing heavy boulders right and when you get 
so that there are 2 soft boulders above, Fire/move U U L U R U U and go to 
the UR and get all the jugs. Clear out the junk and then bomb down into the 
swamp until only one row is left. Bomb the purple circles and to the left of 
them you have a shovel. Clean the main level up with that. Try also to touch 
the DR part so that the enemies exit and you can get that gold at a later 
time.

Now the tricky part here is in the UL, unless you know where the power-ups 
are. Get the speed up(3U3L of the gold) and then go all the way left and 1D. 
Fire left for the shield. Take care of the gold now--you can get the jugs 
later. Go under the cinder block. Use a horn. Go down and fire up and quickly 
go up. So much can go wrong here without the shield--you can not run soon 
enough, or you can inch up too far. Repeat on the left, tracking back there 
for a question. Now clear the jugs. Place three bombs around the center 
circle--you might not be able to do this at once. Shoot below where the 
purple was. Then push the cinder blocks left and right. Leave a bomb to the 
left and fire from the right, then fire right. Shoot a sparrow now.

This part is very inexact. Shoot a sparrow, go diagonally DR and then back 
left. If you wind up with 148, pretty good. Grab two more jugs. Go back to 
the DR and hopefully you'll have just enough to win. Now the exit is behind 
the purple circle you bombed in the UL.

Congratulations! You have won Joshua.

Well, it is cooler when the computer tells you.

10000 extra per guy, but you still get a quiz afterwards. Hmm.

Now each level 1-50 has a match in levels 51-100.

1<->58
2<->84
3<->57
4<->53
5<->76
6<->82
7<->66
8<->78
9<->52
10<->55
11<->51
12<->60
13<->93
14<->68
15<->54
16<->96
17<->98
18<->79
19<->74
20<->59
21<->67
22<->69
23<->71
24<->72
25<->61
26<->94
27<->83
28<->88
29<->65
30<->85
31<->87
32<->64
33<->56
34<->70
35<->73
36<->95
37<->86
38<->63
39<->90
40<->89
41<->91
42<->80
43<->81
44<->100
45<->77
46<->99
47<->62
48<->97
49<->75
50<->92

200-100 for enemy
1000/goat??
10/second?
100/bomb??
  5. CHEATS

5. Joshua is declared leader.
10. Joshua sens out two spies.
15. Rahab sends the spies to hide on the roof.
20. The water piled up.
25. The priests blew their trumpets.
30. The walls of Jericho crumbled and fell.
35. More died from hail than by the swords of the Israelites.
40. The sun and moon stood still.
45. Joshua divides the land.
50. The spies hid under flax on the roof.

double credit for bombing moving purple
running Shooting helps thru stop.
Your hair can touch an enemy.
bombing changes handedness
can see ahead of time when you need to turn in secret tunnels
Once you score a million, the powerup covers the zero.
look both ways before crossing purple guys isn't a commandment, but it's a 
good rule in this game..
End of FAQ proper

================================

  6. VERSIONS

0.1.0: sent to GameFAQs 3/2/2007, first ten levels done
0.5.0: sent to GameFAQs 3/5/2007, first fifty levels done
0.7.5: sent to GameFAQs 3/6/2007, first 75 levels done
1.0.0: sent to GameFAQs 3/7/2007, all 100 levels done, some bonus missing. 
To-do=text maps, secret locations, level linking, basics, and general 
cosmetic stuff.

  7. CREDITS


