                _______  ___    ___    _______   ____
               |     _ | \ /    \ /    \   __ | / __ \
               |_/| | \| | |    | |     | /  \| | |/_|
                  | |   | | |   | |     | |      \ \
                  | |  | |_| |  | |     | |_-¯|   \ \
                  | |  | ___ |  | |    <   ___|  __\ \
                  | | | |   | | | |  /| | |     / _\\ \
                  | | | |   | | | |_/ | | \__/| | \_/ /
                  /_\ \__\ /__//______|/______| \____/
                             ___   _______
                            / _ \  \  ___ |
                           | / \ |  |/   \|
                           ||   || < '-¯|
                           ||   ||  ||¯¯
                           | \_/ |  ||
                            \___/  /__\
 _____  ___  __    ___  __     ___ _______  ___    ____   _     ___
 \  _  \\ / / /    \ /  \ \    \ /|     _ | \ /   / __ \ ( \    \ /
 | | / /| | \ \    | |   | \   | ||_/| | \| | |   | |/_|  \ \   | |
 | |/ / | |  | |  | | |  |  \  | |   | |   | | |   \ \    / /  | | |
<   _/  | '-¯  | | |_| | |   \ | |   | |  | |_| |   \ \   \ \ | |_| |
 | |    | |¯¯| | | ___ | | |\ \| |   | |  | ___ |  __\ \  | | | ___ |
 | |    | |  | || |   | || | \   |   | | | |   | |/ _\\ \ | || |   | |
 | |    | |  | || |   | || |  \  |   | | | |   | || \_/ / | || |   | |
 /_\    /_\  /_|\__\ /__//_\   \_\   /_\ \__\ /__/\____/  /_\\__\ /__/




           /¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
          ||                                              ||
          || TALES OF PHANTASIA FAQ AND WALKTHROUGH V 1.4 ||
          ||                   PART  II                   ||
          ||               BY  JOAQUIN PUGA               ||
          ||         [joaquinpuga@infovia.com.ar]         ||
          ||       Copyright (©) 2000 Joaquin Puga        ||
          ||                                              ||
           \______________________________________________/




======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
                              DISCLAIMER
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================

             Unpublished work Copyright 2000 Joaquin Puga

This FAQ and everything included within this file cannot be reproduced
in any way, shape or form (physical, electronical, or otherwise) aside
from being placed on a freely-accessible, non-commercial web page in
it's original, unedited and unaltered format.  This FAQ cannot be used
for profitable purposes (even if no money would be made from selling 
it) or promotional purposes.  It cannot be used in any sort of
commercial transaction.  It cannot be given away as some sort of
bonus, gift, etc., with a purchase as this creates incentive to buy
and is therefore prohibited.  Furthermore, this FAQ cannot be used by
the publishers, editors, employees or associates, etc. of any company,
group, business, or association, etc., nor can it be used by game
sites and the like. It cannot be used in magazines, guides, books,
etc. or in any other form of printed or electronic media (including
mediums not specifically mentioned) in ANY way, shape, or form
(including reprinting, reference or inclusion), without the express
written permission of the author, myself.  This FAQ was created and is
owned by me, Joaquin Puga.  All copyrights and trademarks are
acknowledged and respected that are not specifically mentioned in this
FAQ.

 The above Copyright Notice was developed by Kao Megura (with a tiny
bit of helping from Ignacio de Lucas). It is self-affecting, meaning
that it cannot be reproduced without crediting its author (for all
purposes, Kao Megura). A lot of FAQ writers out there are starting to
be aware of the need to protect their work from plagiarism. This is
Good. However, there's been an increasing trend among some of them do
so by just copying and pasting Kao Megura's copyright notice, without
crediting him at all. This is Wrong. He's too good a guy and is more
happy about these people protecting their work (and doing so with
something he has devoted a lot of time to perfect) than concerned
about his own protection being transgressed. Thus, he'll say nothing,
but I won't. If you're going to just copy his Copyright Notice (one
that warns against plagiarism, for goodness' sake) at least have the
decency of thanking him properly!

 ____________________________________________________________________
//¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\\
| THANKS A LOT TO IGNACIO DE LUCAS for letting me use the disclaimer |
| from his Xenogears FAQ. THANKS TO KAO MEGURA because he is the one |
| who made it in the first place. Remember that, if you want to use  |
| the above disclaimer you MUST ask for permission from Kao Megura or|
| Ignacio de Lucas, not from me.                                     |
|                                                                    |
|       Ignacio de Lucas                          Kao Megura         |
|     <de_lucas@yahoo.com>                   <kmegura@yahoo.com>     |
\\__________________________________________________________________//
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
                           REVISION HISTORY
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================

Version 0.1 [08/14/00] - Decided to make a walkthrough for Tales of
                         Phantasia. Made the ASCII art of the FAQ and
                         wrote the introduction. The design used is
                         the same from my FF IX FAQ project.


Version 0.2 [08/30/00] - The FAQ covers as far as the Moria Gallery
                         and a little more. More to come soon!


Version 0.3 [09/07/00] - Walkthrough up to The Tower of the Twelve
                         Stars. Added the Norse Mythology Section (I'm
                         not even near finishing it, but it's there).


Version 0.4 [09/14/00] - Expanded the walkthrough up to the end of
                         Dhaos' Fortress. Added lots of information to
                         the Norse Mythology section. This is the
                         largest Tales of Phantasia FAQ that I know of
                         already, and I'm not even half done yet! (is
                         this good or bad?...).


Version 0.5 [09/21/00] - The walkthrough is done until right before
                         going to the Fire Tower and the Ice Cavern.
                         Added a new part to the introduction. The
                         file now is as big as 242 KB, that's 54 KB
                         more than last week!


Version 0.6 [09/28/00] - The walkthrough is almost complete, I'm right
                         before going after Dhaos. I'm almost sure
                         that the walkthrough will be complete by next
                         week!


Version 0.7 [10/08/00] - I know I almost promised the complete
                         walkthrough, but I was busy half the time
                         last week, and the other half I was... well,
                         just lazy. I had to delay the release of this
                         revision to include the full walkthrough of
                         the Moria Gallery and the Treasure Quest.


Version 0.8 [11/05/00] - Okay, I'm really sorry about taking so long,
                         but the walkthrough is complete now and the
                         Coliseum section has been added. The next
                         revision will include cheats!


Version 0.9 [11/29/00] - And yet again I'm late! This time I added the
                         'Cheats and Codes' section, check it out!
                         Last AND least, I completed the 'Menu
                         Explanation' section, but it's huge, so I
                         might move it somewhere below the
                         Walkthrough.


Version 1.0 [12/15/00] - Made the list of skills for Mint, Klarth and
                         Arche. Added more information in section 8.3
                         Created the 'Voice Actors' Section and added
                         the 'Patch Related Questions' to the
                         Frequently Asked Questions.


Version 1.1 [12/22/00] - Hooray! We just overcame the 500 KB barrier!
                         This time I made the list of skills for Cless
                         (Combos are still missing though) and
                         completed sections 2.3 and 2.4. I also
                         finished the 'Voice Actors' section.


Version 1.2 [02/03/01] - After Dejap's Final Patch release, seeing how
                         big the file would get, I decided the divide
                         the FAQ. I changed all the item names in the
                         walkthrough and added a few minor things
                         (such as the combos you can get in each
                         section) in Part I. The list of Cless' combos
                         was finally added. There are some new cheats
                         as well (most of them are courtesy of Jeffrey
                         Tam).


Version 1.3 [03/29/01] - The huge increase in file size comes from the
                         fact that the Item and Shop Lists are done!
                         There were also many changes in the
                         walkthrough and the mini-quests, but they are
                         minor.


Version 1.4 [07/14/01] - It was about time! This revision includes the
                         List of Enemies and a new section for extra
                         tactics sent by contributors. I am pleased to
                         announce that this is the Complete Version of
                         the FAQ (for more info, see section 1.4 of
                         Part I). There won't be any more updates
                         unless I realize there is a big flaw
                         somewhere in the guide... Thanks for reading.
                         Bye!


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


      ============
      - PART  II -
      ============


   I.- SPELLS AND SKILLS
         I.1  List of Skills for Cless
         I.2  List of Skills for Mint
         I.3  List of Spirits for Klarth
         I.4  List of Spells for Arche


  II.- ITEM LIST
        II.1  Supply List
        II.2  Food List
        II.3  Weapon List
        II.4  Armor List
        II.5  Accessory List
        II.6  Treasure List


 III.- SHOPS LIST
       III.1  Shops in the Present
       III.2  Shops in the Past
       III.3  Shops in the Future


  IV.- MONSTERS LIST
        IV.1  List of Monsters per Location
        IV.2  List of Enemies


   V.- CODES AND CHEATS
         V.1  Toying with Characters' Level and Status
         V.2  General Toying
         V.3  Skill Activation Codes
         V.4  Item Modification Codes


  VI.- MISCELLANEOUS
        VI.1  Yume Wa Owaranai Lyrics
        VI.2  Norse Mythology in Tales of Phantasia
        VI.3  Some Other Interesting Things
        VI.4  Voice Actors
        VI.5  Extra Tactics


 VII.- FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
       VII.1  Clearing Things Out
       VII.2  Game Related Questions
       VII.3  Patch Related Questions


VIII.- CREDITS



      ============
      -  PART I  -
      ============


  1.- INTRODUCTION
         1.1  About this Walkthrough
         1.2  About Tales of Phantasia
         1.3  About the Game and the Translation Patch
         1.4  A Short Message from the Author


  2.- PLAYING THE GAME
         2.1  Characters Introduction
         2.2  Gameplay basics
         2.3  The Controls
         2.4  The Battles
         2.5  Menu Explanation


  3.- THE WALKTHROUGH
         3.1  Totus Town and the Southern Forest
         3.2  Betrayal in Euclid
         3.3  Escaping Jail
         3.4  Awakening of Dhaos
         3.5  A New World, or an Old Time?
         3.6  Euclid in the Past
         3.7  The Valley of the Sylphs
         3.8  Yggdrasill and the Destruction of Harmel
         3.9  Venezia and Demitel's Island
         3.10 On the Way to Alvanista
         3.11 The Kingdom of Alvanista
         3.12 Undine's Water Cave
         3.13 Ifrit, the Fire Elemental Spirit
         3.14 Gnome, the Spirit of Earth
         3.15 The Moria Gallery
         3.16 Looking for Edward
         3.17 Maze! Treant's Forest
         3.18 The City of Midgard
         3.19 The Tower of Twelve Stars
         3.20 War! The Valhalla Plains and the Aerial Battle
         3.21 Dhaos' Fortress
         3.22 Unicorn! Help us Save the Yggdrasill
         3.23 Thor, the sunken Hi-Tech City
         3.24 Future Times are Better!
         3.25 Lightning Spirit! Volt's Cave
         3.26 The Future of Alvanista and the Grand World Tour
         3.27 Freeze! Fenrir's Ice Cavern
         3.28 Burn! Odin's Fire Tower
         3.29 Spirit of Creation, Origin
         3.30 Before Taking on Dhaos
         3.31 The Final Confrontation


  4.- SECRETS AND EXTRA STUFF
         4.1  Elwyn and Nancy, a Love Story
         4.2  Mini-Games at Alvanista
         4.3  The Ninja Village
         4.4  Ayflite's Treasure
         4.5  Moria Gallery, the Lower Levels
         4.6  The Coliseum
         4.7  Ninjas at Euclid
         4.8  Cookin' 'n Stuff
         4.9  Cless' Classes
         4.10 Combo Command Combinations


  5.- FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
         5.1  Clearing Things Out
         5.2  Game Related Questions
         5.3  Patch Related Questions


  6.- CREDITS


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
I.-                        SPELLS AND SKILLS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
I.1- List of Skills for Cless
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 Being the main character and all, it's obvious that Cless skills are
always useful. Just be careful, because if you are not careful you
might end up wasting all of his TP and running out of TP recovering
items.

 Cless skills will be listed in the following order: Short-Range
skills first, then Long-Range skills and finally Combos. Each section
will be sorted alphabetically.

NOTE:  In the list of characteristics of each Skill: 'Master' refers
      to whether the skill can be mastered (i.e. has a % counter).


                     ===========================
                     -  S h o r t   R a n g e  -
                     ===========================

                                                 B l a d e   S t o r m 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Attack the enemy with a shower of stabbing attacks.
     TP Cost:   15
        Type:   Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Stabs the enemy about ten times. Since this attack
                uses the Thrust value of the weapon, it is not very
                effective while using axes.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 12


                                                     D u a l   K i c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Kick the enemy then strike them with your weapon
                twice.
     TP Cost:   4
        Type:   Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless runs to the target and jump, kicking as he goes
                up. He kicks again when he reaches the top, then uses
                his weapon on the way down.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 5


                                                   E i r ' s   L o v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Asks the goddess Eir to heal you.
     TP Cost:   6
        Type:   Healing
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless stands holding his sword near the floor,
                recovering a good amount of HP.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 34


                                                     F i r e b r a n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Wrap your sword in flames then throw it at an enemy.
     TP Cost:   10
        Type:   Fire Damage
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless jumps holding is weapon enveloped in fire in
                front of him, then throws it to the floor. The weapon
                appears back in Cless' hands afterwards.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 45


                                                             F o c u s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Boost your speed and attack.
     TP Cost:   6
        Type:   Offensive Boost
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless jumps high up in the air, creating green
                sparkles around him.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 20


                                                   F o c u s   M o r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Boost your speed and attack even more than Focus.
     TP Cost:   20
        Type:   Offensive Boost
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless raises his weapon, liberating fiery waves of
                energy.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 50


                                                   F u r y   S l a s h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gather energy and focus into one extra powerful slice.
     TP Cost:   12
        Type:   Physical Damage
What it does:   Cless holds his sword back while gathering power, then
                releases a powerful blow of long reach.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 31


                                                 G a l e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Create a barrier that enemies cannot pass through.
     TP Cost:   5
        Type:   Defense
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless sticks his sword into the floor, then energy
                arising from around it. This skill is quite slow, but
                is great if you have cornered an enemy, especially if
                if flies.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 27


                                                   M a g m a   R i f t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Open a hole from the center of the earth, creating a
                sudden lava sprout.
     TP Cost:   9
        Type:   Fire & Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless creates a powerful flame in front of him, he
                attacks with his weapon afterwards. The first part of
                this attack has the Fire elemental property, the
                second part is non-elemental.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 41


                                                     S o u l   W a v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gathers your soul's energy, then releases it towards
                the enemies.
     TP Cost:   30
        Type:   Energy Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Blue sparkles ascend around Cless in spiral, dealing
                Water Elemental damage to the enemies around him.
                Cless then releases a powerful energy wave that hits
                the enemy several times.
     Acquire:   Cless receives this skill after beating the Fire Tower
                - See section 3.28 of Part I


                                                       T e l e p o r t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Teleport to the enemy, scoring up to four hits.
     TP Cost:   30
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless holds his weapon pointing up while energy surges
                from the floor around him (very much like Wind
                Barrier) and he begins to float. Cless appears over
                the enemy afterwards, hits it four times and goes back
                to where he was standing before.
     Acquire:   Cless receives this skill from Origin, after defeating
                him - See section 3.29 of Part I


                                                 T i g e r   T e e t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Attack the enemy with two strong slices.
     TP Cost:   7
        Type:   Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Slices the enemy upwards, then slices downwards.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 15



                      =========================
                      -  L o n g   R a n g e  -
                      =========================

                                                   E i r ' s   L o v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Asks the goddess Eir to heal you.
     TP Cost:   6
        Type:   Healing
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless stands holding his sword near the floor,
                recovering a good amount of HP.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 34


                                                             F o c u s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Boost your speed and attack.
     TP Cost:   6
        Type:   Offensive Boost
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless jumps high up in the air, creating green
                sparkles around him.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 20


                                                   F o c u s   M o r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Boost your speed and attack even more than Focus.
     TP Cost:   20
        Type:   Offensive Boost
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless raises his weapon, liberating fiery waves of
                energy.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 50


                                                 G a l e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Create a barrier that enemies cannot pass through.
     TP Cost:   5
        Type:   Defense
      Master:   No
What it does:   Cless sticks his sword into the floor, then energy
                arising from around it. This skill is quite slow, but
                is great if you have cornered an enemy, especially if
                if flies.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 27


                                           L i g h t n i n g   B o l t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Create a lightning bolt to strike nearby enemies.
     TP Cost:   8
        Type:   Electrical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless runs and jumps. He kicks in the air once he
                reaches the top, creating a blade of energy that goes
                straight into the target. Once the blade hits ground,
                a powerful lightning follows.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 9


                                                     L i o n h e a r t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Creates a physical being from your courage to attack
                foes.
     TP Cost:   14
        Type:   Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless tackles the enemies in front of him. He then
                stabs them, releasing energy in the form of a lion
                head.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 37



                                                         P h o e n i x
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Transforms your body into the flaming bird of legend.
     TP Cost:   8
        Type:   Fire Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless holds his weapon near the floor while energy
                surges from his body. He then jumps and gets
                completely enveloped in flames, becoming a fire bird
                that flies into the target in a kamikaze attack.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 23


                                                   P s i o n   B o l t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Fires a bolt of energy along the ground at the enemy.
     TP Cost:   2
        Type:   Energy Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless swings his sword, releasing a wave of energy
                that goes through the battlefield.
     Acquire:   Cless gets this skill at level 2


                                                     S o u l   E d g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Uses your soul's power to extend the length of your
                weapon.
     TP Cost:   25
        Type:   Energy Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless runs over to the target. He jumps next to it,
                holding his weapon in front of him and creating a
                blast of energy. As he falls, Cless slashes the target
                again.
     Acquire:   Cless receives this skill after beating the Ice Cavern
                - See section 3.27 of Part I


                                                       T e l e p o r t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Teleport to the enemy, scoring up to four hits.
     TP Cost:   30
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
      Master:   Yes
What it does:   Cless holds his weapon pointing up while energy surges
                from the floor around him (very much like Wind
                Barrier) and he begins to float. Cless appears over
                the enemy afterwards, hits it four times and goes back
                to where he was standing before.
     Acquire:   Cless receives this skill from Origin, after defeating
                him - See section 3.29 of Part I



                    =============================
                    -  C o m b i n a t i o n s  -
                    =============================

                                                   B o l t   C r a s h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lightning Bolt/Dual Kick
     TP Cost:   17
        Type:   Electrical & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 18,000
                Gald from a man in Midgard (Past only) - See section
                3.18 of Part I


                                               B u r n i n g   S o u l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Phoenix/Blade Storm
     TP Cost:   21
        Type:   Fire & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book received from a
                woman in a camp south-west of Alvanista - See section
                3.11 of Part I


                                                 C i n d e r   H a w k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Phoenix/Magma Rift
     TP Cost:   18
        Type:   Fire & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 50,000
                Gald from a swordswoman in Ary in the future - See
                section 3.26 of Part I


                                               E a r t h ' s   R a g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lightning Bolt/Magma Rift
     TP Cost:   17
        Type:   Electrical & Fire Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 50,000
                Gald from a swordsman in the Valhalla Plains - See
                section 3.21 of Part I


                                                 F l a r e   T a l o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Phoenix/Tiger Teeth
     TP Cost:   20
        Type:   Fire & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 20,000
                Gald from a swordswoman in Miguel in the future - See
                section 3.24 of Part I


                                                   L i o n   C l a w s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lionheart/Blade Storm
     TP Cost:   28
        Type:   Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book received after
                beating the Coliseum in Euclid (future) for the first
                time - See section 4.6 of Part I


                                                   L i o n   F l a r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lionheart/Magma Rift
     TP Cost:   13
        Type:   Physical & Fire Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 33000
                Gald from a swordsman in Freezekill (future) - See
                section 3.26 of Part I


                                                   L i o n   L u n g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lionheart/Dual Kick
     TP Cost:   12
        Type:   Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought from a man
                camping south of the Moria Galley for 1,2000 Gald
                - See section 3.11 of Part I


                                                   L i o n   T e e t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lionheart/Tiger Teeth
     TP Cost:   13
        Type:   Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book received after
                beating the Coliseum in Euclid (future) for the first
                time - See section 4.6 of Part I


                                                   M a g m a   B o l t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Psion Bolt/Magma Rift
     TP Cost:   10
        Type:   Energy & Fire Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book received from a
                swordswoman in a camp south of Midgard - See section
                3.18 of Part I


                                                 M e c h a   B l a d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Psion Bolt/Tiger Teeth
     TP Cost:   15
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from the kid in Beladum's
                weapon store or from an old man's drawers in Miguel in
                the future if you forget to get it the first time- See
                section 3.5 or 3.24 of Part I


                                               O d i n ' s   W r a t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Phoenix/Tiger Teeth
     TP Cost:   25
        Type:   Fire & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 40,000
                Gald from a swordsman in one of the oases in Freland
                in the future - See section 3.26 of Part I


                                                   P s i o n   K i c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Psion Bolt/Dual Kick
     TP Cost:   9
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless receives this combination from Tristan, at the
                mausoleum cave at the beginning of the game - See
                section 3.4 of Part I


                                                 P s i o n   S t o r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Psion Bolt/Blade Storm
     TP Cost:   16
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 6000
                Gald in the Adventurer's Guild in Alvanista - See
                section 3.11 of Part I


                                                         T e m p e s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lightning Bolt/Blade Storm
     TP Cost:   21
        Type:   Electrical & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book bought for 3,000
                Gald from a woman in Venezia's Armor Shop - See
                section 3.9 of Part I


                                               T h o r ' s   W r a t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Lightning Bolt/Tiger Teeth
     TP Cost:   20
        Type:   Electrical & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo from a book found in a chest
                in the 21st level of the Moria Gallery (Future) - See
                section 4.5 of Part I


                                                   S o u l   F o r g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Soul Edge/Soul Wave
     TP Cost:   50
        Type:   Energy Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo in the Treant's Forest in the
                future, after the battle against Origin - See section
                3.26 of Part I


                                                 S o u l   S t r i k e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
    Combines:   Teleport/Soul Wave
     TP Cost:   40
        Type:   Energy & Physical Damage
     Acquire:   Cless learns this combo in the Treant's Forest in the
                future, after the battle against Origin - See section
                3.26 of Part I



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
I.2- List of Skills for Mint
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

 Being Mint the only healer in the group, her spells will ALWAYS be
useful. Of course not all of her spells are that good, you will mostly
use healing and power boosting spells, rather than any others.

 Note that after a status modifying spell has been cast (like Acid
Rain or Valkyrie) the enemies/allies affected by it are denoted by a
little wave of energy over them being blue and going down (when
affected by a bad status, like Slow) or being red and going up (when
affected by a good status, like Haste).


                                                     F i r s t   A i d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A simple spell to recover HP.
     TP Cost:   5
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   A few light-blue sparkles appear over the character
                healing a few hundreds HP.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 3
    Comments:    Mint's very first healing spell. Obviously very
                useful until you acquire a more powerful healing
                spell.


                                                     D e e p   M i s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Blinds enemies, causing their melee attacks to be less
                effective.
     TP Cost:   3
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
What it does:   A white mist covers the battlefield.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 8
    Comments:    I personally don't use this spell much, since it
                doesn't work on powerful enemies, which are the ones
                you want to weaken.


                                                           H a m m e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Stuns an enemy.
     TP Cost:   4
       Range:   One Enemy
What it does:   Mint throws a hammer at an enemy. It may or may not
                get to hit the target. Obviously, if it does, the foe
                gets stunned.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 5
    Comments:    A good spell that can be useful even near the end of
                the game. Watch out though, if you let her, Mint might
                waste all of her TP using this.


                                                               H e a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Restores a fair amount of HP.
     TP Cost:   10
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   A magic seal appears over the character.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 14
    Comments:    Another healing spell, which means it is really
                useful, at least until you get a better one.


                                                       A n t i d o t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Remove the poison from an ally's body.
     TP Cost:   8
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   Tree red triangles appear over the character sprite,
                then separate and vanish.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 20
    Comments:    Very useful when facing those nasty monsters that
                just love to poison Cless.


                                                         S i l e n c e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Prevents an enemy from casting spells.
     TP Cost:   6
       Range:   One Enemy
What it does:   Mint throws a black strip of paper (a Japanese mystic
                seal) at an enemy. 
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 29
    Comments:    I never actually used this one, and I doubt it works
                on powerful enemies, which makes it almost useless.


                                                     A c i d   R a i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Lowers enemies' defence.
     TP Cost:   7
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
What it does:   A crimson rain falls all over the battlefield.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 17
    Comments:    You may use this one in some battles when Mint has
                nothing to do.


                                                               C u r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Restores large amount of HP.
     TP Cost:   22
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   Many light blue sparkles form a circle around the
                target and converge at him/her.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 38
    Comments:    Mint's most powerful individual healing spell.


                                                       V a l k y r i e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons a war goddess to bless all allies.
     TP Cost:   15
       Range:   All Allies on the Screen
What it does:   A Valkyrie flies through the screen, raising the
                attack power of the characters on the screen.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 44
    Comments:    Very useful in many boss battles, especially if you
                like to use Chester, as it will affect him and Cless
                at the same time.


                                                         R e c o v e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Removes allies' status ailments (e.g. Stone,
                Paralyzed).
     TP Cost:   18
       Range:   All Allies on the Screen
What it does:   Very much like the Antidote spell, to big, red
                triangles appear in the center of the screen, removing
                all status ailments from the characters on the screen.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 47
    Comments:    You will be using this one constantly while facing
                those nasty monsters that just love to Paralyze Cless.


                                                         B a r r i e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Magically creates a shield around one ally to defend.
     TP Cost:   15
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   Creates a blue energy blast in the center of the
                screen, dispersing stars that surround the characters
                afterwards.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 35
    Comments:    I didn't use this one too often, but it may be useful
                in some cases.


                                                           D i s p e l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Restores an ally to normal. (e.g. Silenced or Slowed)
     TP Cost:   14
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   A green pyramid appears over a character.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 32
    Comments:    Your characters are rarely affected by Silence or
                Slow, which makes this spell almost unnecessary.


                                                             N u r s e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons angels to heal the party.
     TP Cost:   20
       Range:   All Allies on the Screen
What it does:   One nurse per party member on the screen appears over
                the battlefield and fly towards them to heal medium
                amount of HP.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 23
    Comments:    Obviously a great spell, as it allows you to heal the
                whole party at once.


                                                             H a s t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increase an ally's speed.
     TP Cost:   16
       Range:   All Allies on the Screen
What it does:   Several clocks appear on the screen and start to move
                forward, quickly acquiring speed.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 26
    Comments:    Very useful, you will probably want to use this
                whenever Mint isn't busy healing.


                                                             D e l a y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Slows an enemy down.
     TP Cost:   14
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
What it does:   Several clocks appear on the screen and start to move
                backwards, diminishing speed.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 11
    Comments:    Not as useful as it may seem, since it doesn't work
                on most powerful enemies or bosses.


                                                 H a m m e r   H e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Stuns the enemies.
     TP Cost:   16
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
What it does:   A huge hammer falls over the battlefield.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 41
    Comments:    Almost useless, unless you are facing a big group of
                annoying foes.


                                               R e s u r r e c t i o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Holy power restores the party's HP.
     TP Cost:   32
       Range:   All Allies on the Screen
What it does:   Many stars converge at the center of the screen, then
                a powerful healing light emanates from there.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 54
    Comments:    Mint's most powerful group healing spell. You don't
                need me to tell you how useful it is.


                                                   R a i s e   D e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Revives an ally who has been slain.
     TP Cost:   26
       Range:   One Ally
What it does:   A beam of light descends over the slain ally, the
                ally's spirit enters his/her body afterwards.
     Acquire:   Mint gets this spell at level 50
    Comments:    If reviving slain allies in battles is not useful, I
                don't know what is... ^_^



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
I.3- List of Spirits for Klarth
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 Klarth doesn't seem to be really useful when you first meet him, but
once you start acquiring spirits to summon, he becomes an essential
member of your party.

NOTE:  If you want to know the meaning of the names of the Spirits,
      look at section 8.3

                                                           S y l p h s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Air. Sylphs are Wind Fairies.
     TP Cost:   5
       Range:   One enemy
     Element:   Wind
What it does:   A group of Sylphs surround the enemy for little
                damage.
     Acquire:   Get in Lawn Valley, see section 3.7 of Part I.
    Comments:    The very first Spirit you get. Sylph is useful until
                you find the others Elemental Spirits. After that, you
                will probably just forget about Sylph.


                                                           U n d i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Water. Undine is a war goddess.
     TP Cost:   8
       Range:   All enemies on the screen
     Element:   Water
What it does:   Undine crosses the screen holding her sword.
     Acquire:   Get in Undine's Cavern in the past - See section 3.12
                of Part I.
    Comments:    One of the four Elemental spells which you need to
                meet Maxwell in Moria Gallery. Undine is quite
                powerful and comes in handy in a certain fire dungeon
                later in the game.


                                                             G n o m e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Earth. Gnome is an enchanted
                clay beast.
     TP Cost:   14
       Range:   All enemies on the screen
     Element:   Earth
What it does:   Missiles come out of the ground and fall over the
                enemies
     Acquire:   Get in Cave east of Beladum in the past - See section
                3.14 of Part I.
    Comments:    One of the four Elemental spells which you need to
                meet Maxwell in Moria Gallery. Gnome is really
                powerful and amusing to watch, too bad he is pain in
                the... head when you fight him ^_^


                                                             I f r i t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Fire. Ifrit is a fire genie.
     TP Cost:   16
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   Ifrit commands several fire balls to hit the enemy
     Acquire:   Get in Molten Cavern in the past - See section 3.13 of
                Part I.
    Comments:    One of the four Elemental spells which you need to
                meet Maxwell in Moria Gallery. Ifrit is powerful, but
                just like the other Elementals, he becomes outdated
                once you contract with Maxwell.


                                                         M a x w e l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of judgement. Maxwell is an ancient
                Mage.
     TP Cost:   20
       Range:   One Enemy/All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   Several images of Maxwell in his bubble appear and
                bounce around the screen, doing random damage to the
                enemies in their way. This attack may not hit anyone,
                but happily this doesn't happen often.
     Acquire:   You get Maxwell in the 10th Level of the Moria Gallery
                - See section 3.15 of Part I.
    Comments:    A very powerful summon. Since the damage is basically
                random, he is never really outdated. Maxwell is
                specially useful when facing some nasty bosses near
                the end of the game.


                                                               L u n a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit the Moon. Luna is an ancient Queen.
     TP Cost:   24
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Light
What it does:   Luna commands huge beams of light to fall over the
                battlefield
     Acquire:   You get Luna in the top floor of the Tower of the
                Twelve Stars in the past - See section 3.19 of Part I.</pre><pre id="faqspan-2">
    Comments:    This is a very powerful spirit, specially useful
                almost immediately after you get it, when you enter
                Dhaos' Fortress about halfway through the game. Too
                bad, soon after that you get a better Light elemental.


                                                           S h a d o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Darkness. Shadow is of a long
                forgotten race.
     TP Cost:   25
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Darkness
What it does:   Shadow envelops the battlefield in darkness, damaging
                your foes.
     Acquire:   You can get Shadow in the cave south-east of Ary in
                the future if you have the Amethyst Ring - See section
                3.26 of Part I.
    Comments:    This is one of the optional spirits you can get, but
                unlike the others, Shadow is not very useful. Even
                though this is the only Darkness Elemental you have,
                you will probably just use him once or twice to see
                his animation and just banish him into the oblivion
                together with Sylph and Luna :(


                                                               A s k a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Light. Aska is the eagle of the
                rising sun.
     TP Cost:   25
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Light
What it does:   Several images of Aska fly through the screen, dealing
                light elemental damage to all enemies on the screen.
     Acquire:   You can get Aska in the city of Thor in the future if
                you have the Topaz Ring and talked to an elf woman in
                Alvanista - See section 3.26 of Part I.
    Comments:    One of the most useful spirits you can get. Aska does
                heavy light-elemental damage, which is really useful
                when you are in the Lower Levels of the Moria Gallery
                to get a better summon. Unlike Shadow, Aska is very
                powerful.


                                                               V o l t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Electricity. Volt is a being of
                pure energy.
     TP Cost:   32
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Lightning
What it does:   Three images of Volt converge in the center of the
                screen and summon a huge lightning that hits the
                ground.
     Acquire:   You get Volt in the cave south-west of Miguel in the
                future after talking to Harrison in Euclid - See
                section 3.24 & 3.25 of Part I.
    Comments:    Volt is powerful, but even though his power is great,
                Aska is a whole lot better. You will summon this
                spirit every once in a while, but not really often.


                                                           O r i g i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Creation. Origin is the lost
                king of dwarves.
     TP Cost:   40
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   Two images of Origin appear on both sides of the
                screen and create powerful flow of energy.
     Acquire:   You get Origin in Treant's Forest in the future - See
                section 3.29 of Part I.
    Comments:    The most powerful of the non-optional spirits. Origin
                is quite useful until you get Gremlin, the best non
                elemental spirit.


                                                         G r e m l i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons a hungry Gremlin and his friends.
     TP Cost:   45
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   Several Gremlins appear (one per foe on the screen)
                and jump over the enemies, dealing heavy non elemental
                damage.
     Acquire:   You can get Gremlin in the 21st level of the Moria
                Gallery in the future if you have the Sapphire Ring -
                See section 4.5 of Part I.
    Comments:    THE BEST spirit in the game. Gremlin does lots of
                damage on all the enemies on the screen. To prove you
                are worthy of such power, you must enter the Lower
                Levels of the Moria Gallery.


                                                     C h a m e l e o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the Spirit of Death. Chameleon swallows his
                prey whole.
     TP Cost:   40
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   A Chameleon's head appears on top of the screen and
                tries to devour an enemy.
     Acquire:   You can get Chameleon in the 16th Level of the Moria
                Gallery in the future if you have the Emerald Ring -
                See section 4.5 of Part I.
    Comments:    The lowest of the lowest, not only his summoning
                animation is bad, he also misses most of times. It can
                even make the game crash if you try to eat certain
                big sized enemies.



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
I.4- List of Spells for Arche
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 The only party member who can use real magic to attack. She is just
as powerful as Klarth, but she has about twice as many spells, meaning
that you get new spells more often.


                                                       F i r e b a l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Fires three fireballs at the target.
     TP Cost:   3
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   Three fireballs appear over Arche's head and then hit
                an enemy.
     Acquire:   Arche already knows this spells when she joins you -
                See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A basic spell, you won't use it much since you can
                better ones almost immediately.


                                                     L i g h t n i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Zaps an enemy with lightning.
     TP Cost:   4
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Lightning
What it does:   A small lightning appears near the enemy and strikes
                it.
     Acquire:   You can buy this spell from a woman in Venezia in the
                future for 200 Gald - See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A basic spell, you won't use it much since you can
                better ones almost immediately.


                                                   I c e   N e e d l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Drops icicles on the enemy.
     TP Cost:   4
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Water
What it does:   Creates ice needles that hit an enemy.
     Acquire:   Arche already knows this spells when she joins you -
                See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A basic spell, you won't use it much since you can
                better ones almost immediately.


                                                             G r a v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Stone spikes pierce the enemies.
     TP Cost:   4
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Earth
What it does:   A big stone spike comes out of the ground under the
                target.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell by checking a bookcase in
                Klarth's house (past) - See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A basic spell, you won't use it much since you can
                better ones almost immediately.


                                                       E r u p t i o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Lava sears the enemies.
     TP Cost:   8
       Range:   Area
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   Creates an eruption around the target, damaging also
                the other foes in the area.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell by talking to Lenios in Beladum
                after Arche joins - See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A mid level fire spell. Useful when fighting Jahmir
                Alvanista.


                                                             S t o r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Blows chunks of debris into the enemies.
     TP Cost:   10
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Wind
What it does:   A powerful wind blows rocks into the enemies dealing
                wind elemental damage.
     Acquire:   You can buy this spell from a woman in Venezia in the
                future for 1000 Gald - See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    A good option when fighting lots of weak foes. You
                get it right after Arche joins, which is good.


                                                 I c e   T o r n a d o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Blows a freezing wind onto your foes.
     TP Cost:   10
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Water
What it does:   Creates an ice vortex over an enemy, freezing it.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell by checking a bookcase in
                Klarth's house (past) - See section 3.10 of Part I.
    Comments:    Actually, you won't be using this spell very much,
                not even against Ifrit.


                                                   S t o n e   W a l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Buries the enemy in stone.
     TP Cost:   10
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Earth
What it does:   Big chunks of rock completely surround the target,
                creating a square-shaped wall.
     Acquire:   You get this spell in the cave east of Beladum in the
                past right after defeating Gnome - See section 3.14 of
                Part I.
    Comments:    A nice spell, but you won't use it much though.


                                               T r a c t o r   B e a m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Lifts the enemies off the floor and drops them.
     TP Cost:   12
       Range:   Area
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   A beam lifts the enemies in the area around the target
                and then drops them. This spell doesn't affect flying
                enemies.
     Acquire:   You can buy this spell from a woman in Alvanista's
                Magic Research Room in the past for 4,000 Gald - See
                section 3.11 of Part I.
    Comments:    Quite a powerful spell, you will find yourself using
                it every once in a while.


                                                     F i r e   W a l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Burns an enemy in a wall of flame.
     TP Cost:   12
       Range:   One enemy
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   A column of fire rises from the ground under the
                enemy.
     Acquire:   You get this spell in the Fire Cavern east of Olive
                Village in the past after defeating Ifrit - See
                section 3.13 of Part I.
    Comments:    This another of those spells that you don't use very
                often.


                                             T h u n d e r   B l a d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Strikes all enemies with a wave of thunder.
     TP Cost:   12
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen.
     Element:   Lightning
What it does:   Four lightnings converge at the center of the screen
                creating a powerful shockwave that damages all foes.
     Acquire:   You can buy this spell from a woman in Alvanista's
                Magic Research Room in the past for 12,000 Gald - See
                section 3.11 of Part I.
    Comments:    A really powerful spell. You will use this for a long
                time after you get it. Too bad it's so expensive.



                                                       I c e   W a l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Drops a large chunk of ice on an enemy.
     TP Cost:   12
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   Water
What it does:   A big block of ice falls over an enemy.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in Undine's Cavern in the
                future - See section 3.26 of Part I.
    Comments:    This spell can be useful if you visit the Fire Tower
                before the Ice Cavern.


                                             F l a r e   T o r n a d o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Waves of fire course through the enemies.
     TP Cost:   15
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   Powerful flames surge from the ground.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the forest around the Ninja
                Village in the future - See section 4.3 of Part I.
    Comments:    A weak spell, considering that by the time you get it
                you already have a more powerful Fire elemental spell.


                                                                 R a y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Fires lasers at all the enemies.
     TP Cost:   15
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Light
What it does:   Rays of light hit the battlefield.
     Acquire:   You get this spell in the Tower of the Twelve Stars in
                the past - See section 3.19 of Part I.
    Comments:    Arche's only Light elemental spell. It comes in handy
                in Dhaos' Fortress in the past.


                                                   F i r e   S t o r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Blows burning debris into enemies.
     TP Cost:   18
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   Hot air blows through the battlefield, crashing
                burning pieces of magma into the enemies.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in Dhaos' Fortress in the past
                - See section 3.21 of Part I.
    Comments:    This spell can be useful if you visit the Ice Cavern
                before the Fire Tower.


                                                   G o d   B r e a t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons a freezing wind from the heavens.
     TP Cost:   18
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Wind
What it does:   A powerful air stream hits the battlefield in the
                middle of the screen.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the City of Thor - See
                Section 3.23 of Part I.
    Comments:    A powerful spell, you will use this every once in a
                while.


                                                   D i s t o r t i o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Slowly rips an enemy apart from the inside out.
     TP Cost:   18
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   The effect is not as violent as its description. A
                transparent rectangle appears and the enemy is drawn
                to it. Then the rectangle rotates a few times and
                vanishes.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in Dhaos' Fortress in the past
                - See section 3.21 of Part I.
    Comments:    Arche's first death spell. Whether you use it or not
                depends on how fond of death spells you are. Note that
                death spells can fail anytime and will NEVER work on
                bosses.


                                                         E x p l o d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Drops a fire bomb on the enemies.
     TP Cost:   25
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Fire
What it does:   A huge explosion occurs in the middle of the
                battlefield.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the Fire Tower in the future
                - See section 3.28 of Part I.
    Comments:    One of the most powerful spells you can have. This
                one is specially useful in the Ice Cavern and
                generally everywhere.


                                                 I n d i g n a t i o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Induces the wrath of the gods upon the enemies.
     TP Cost:   30
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Lightning
What it does:   Several sparks appear over the battlefield and
                converge in the center to make one powerful
                lightening.
     Acquire:   You get this spell in Midgar, right after the aerial
                battle - See section 3.20 of Part I.
    Comments:    A awesome spell when you get it. It is your main form
                of attack when you first fight Dhaos, taking an
                incredible amount of his HP each time.


                                                   T i d a l   W a v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Creates a huge tsunami to crush the enemies.
     TP Cost:   25
       Range:   All Enemies on the screen
     Element:   Water
What it does:   A huge wave crashes on the battlefield.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the Ice Cavern in the future
                - See section 3.27 of Part I.
    Comments:    One of the most powerful spells you can have. This
                one is specially useful in the Fire Tower and
                generally everywhere.


                                                 D e a t h   C l o u d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Envelops an enemy in the very substance of death.
     TP Cost:   25
       Range:   One Enemy
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   Clouds appear and a black circle surges from them. The
                circle places itself behind the target and tries to
                make it disappear.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in Demitel's Mansion in the
                future - See section 3.26 of Part I.
    Comments:    Another death spell. This one works a little more
                often that Distortion, but still doesn't work on
                bosses.


                                               M e t e o r   S t o r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Summons the meteors around the planet to smash into
                enemies.
     TP Cost:   40
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
     Element:   ???
What it does:   Several small meteorites followed by a big one crash
                against the battlefield.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in Dhaos' Flying Castle in the
                future - See section 3.31 of Part I.
    Comments:    The best spell you can have. Once you get it, it will
                be the only one you will use.

                                                   B l a c k   H o l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Warps an enemy to another dimension.
     TP Cost:   35
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   A very simple effect. A black circle appears over the
                battlefield and absorbs one or more enemies.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the Lower Levels of the
                Moria Gallery (future) - See section 4.5 of Part I.
    Comments:    Your first massive death spell. Works quite often,
                making it useful against some enemies that come in
                big groups inside the Moria Gallery. Remember that
                death spells NEVER work on bosses.


                                                   E x t i n c t i o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Eradicates enemies.
     TP Cost:   50
       Range:   All Enemies on the Screen
     Element:   N/A
What it does:   A powerful energy flows to the center of the screen,
                then the screen goes white. When you see the
                battlefield again, the affected enemies disappear.
     Acquire:   You can get this spell in the Lower Levels of the
                Moria Gallery (future) - See section 4.5 of Part I.
    Comments:    The best death spell. This one has the best success
                rate, you will most likely not use it much anyway.
                Finally, do not try to use this spell on bosses, as it
                will NEVER work.



======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
II.-                            ITEM LIST
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.1- Supply List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


NOTE: ·  The easiest way to get the uncommon items will be displayed
         next to 'Acquire'.
      ·  'Use' refers to where you can use the item. Some of them
         can't be used at all and are just meant for trading.
      ·  'Buy' and 'Sell' show the price of the item when (guess what)
         buying and selling.
      ·  'Transforms' refers to what you get by using a Rune Bottle on
         the item.



A p p l e   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An apple flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 30% of
                your HP.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   60 Gald
        Sell:   30 Gald
  Transforms:   Lemon Gummy
    Comments:    The first healing item you can get. Since the amount
                of HP recovered depends on your Maximum HP, this item
                is always useful.


B a s i l i s k   S c a l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A scale of the basilisk beast. They can be used as
                medicine.
What it does:   Completely recovers HP.
     Acquire:   · Receive sometimes after fighting a Basilisk in the
                  Freland.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   160 Gald
    Comments:    Not as useful as it may seem to be, since they can
                only be used in the field screen, where you don't need
                fast healing...


B l u e   C a n d l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A candle with a blue flame. Gives off a soft blue
                light.
What it does:   When used, it gives the field screen a bluish look.
                This may help you see some things in the dark rooms of
                the Moria Gallery.
     Acquire:   Get it from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
    Comments:    Besides what I mentioned above, there's no real use
                for this item...


C a t ' s   E y e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. It's a beautiful, reflective jewel.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town.
     Acquire:   · Choose as your prize after beating the racing kid in
                  Alvanista in the past (see section 4.1).
                · Get one from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                  section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at the
                Elven Village (70,000 Gald in the past and 300,000
                Gald in the future).
    Comments:    A life saver if you don't have too much money to buy
                weapons at Midgard.


C h a r m   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Makes you more attractive. Use it to get 30% discounts
                at stores!
     Acquire:   · Receive quite often after fighting the Ninjas
                  outside the town of Ary in the future.
                · Find some in chests in dungeons.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum six
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,250 Gald
  Transforms:   Lotus Perfume
    Comments:    Very useful when you need to get expensive equipment.
                However, you should always transforms these into Lotus
                Perfumes, so you get greater discounts...


C h r o n o   G l a s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Cronus' hourglass. It can be used to stop time in
                battle.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Hourglass. Note that you should
                always do this, as the Chrono Glass is much more
                effective than the Hourglass.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   3,000 Gald
    Comments:    A great item, especially for the final boss, as he
                has some annoying abilities...


C o m b o   C o u n t e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Edit the setting of this in the Custom menu.
What it does:   While you have this with you, a special option appears
                in the Custom menu, allowing you to set the combo
                count On of Off. When it is turned On and you hit an
                enemy several times in a short time, the name of the
                enemy and the amount of hits will be displayed.
     Acquire:   You can get this item in the Lower Levels of the
                Moria Gallery (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   61,278 Gald
    Comments:    There's no real use for this item, except that you
                 must have it to get on of Cless' jobs. It's kind of
                 fun anyway.


D a r k   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bottle containing evil essence to entice enemies.
What it does:   When a Dark Bottle is used, a black light surrounds
                the party, augmenting the random encounter rate. Its
                effect wears off in time.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   82 Gald
        Sell:   41 Gald
    Comments:    Very useful indeed when you are trying to raise a few
                levels.


D r u m   S e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   You can play the drums!
What it does:   Just as the description reads, you can play the drums.
                Simply press the confirm button when this item is
                selected and you will be taken to a special screen
                where you can play with the different sound effects.
     Acquire:   · Get one in Edward's House in the future (see section
                  3.26 of Part I).
                · Get one from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   50,000 Gald
    Comments:    There's no real use for this item, they are there
                just for fun.


E l i x i r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Restores an ally to full HP and TP.
     Acquire:   The only way to get Elixirs is by finding them in
                chests in dungeons.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   10,000 Gald
    Comments:    The ultimate healing item. Although you rarely need
                them, always try to keep a few of them with you.


F l a r e   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases attack power 30% in battles.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   150 Gald
        Sell:   75 Gald
    Comments:    Very useful for boss battles, at least until Mint
                learns the Valkyrie spell. Always try to have a few of
                these.


G r e e n   T o r c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A torch with a green flame. Gives off a soft green
                light.
What it does:   When used, it gives the field screen a greenish look.
                This may help you see some things in the dark rooms of
                the Moria Gallery.
     Acquire:   Get it from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
    Comments:    Besides what I mentioned above, there's no real use
                for this item...


G u i n n e s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. Now THIS is beer. "A Guinness a day is
                good for you".
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town. It can also be
                in battle to completely recover an ally's HP, TP and
                Status.
     Acquire:   · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum twice
                  in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at
                Alvanista in the future (400,000 Gald).
    Comments:    Great for the last battles. You should try to avoid
                selling this if possible...


H o l y   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bottle containing holy essence to ward off enemies.
What it does:   When a Holy Bottle is used, a white light surrounds
                the party, diminishing the random encounter rate. Its
                effect wears off in time.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   80 Gald
        Sell:   40 Gald
    Comments:    Since the encounter rate in Tales of Phantasia can
                sometimes be a little annoying, this item is like a
                blessing.


H o u r g l a s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Use this to stop enemies from moving around for a
                while.
     Acquire:   The only way to get Hourglasses is by finding them in
                chests in dungeons.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,500 Gald
  Transforms:   Chrono Glass
    Comments:    A great item, especially for the final boss, as he
                has some anoying abilities... Of course it's better to
                use Chrono Glasses in the last battle, which you get
                by using a Rune Bottle on a Hourglass.


I v o r y   T u s k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. The ivory from a dead boar.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town.
     Acquire:   Receive sometimes by fighting Bigfoots in the lower
                levels of the Moria Gallery (see section 4.5 of Part
                I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Venezia
                in the future (32,000 Gald).
  Transforms:   Mah Jong Tile
    Comments:    It would be a waste to sell these. The money you get
                is pretty insignificant. You should transform all of
                your Ivory Tusks into Mah Jong Tiles, which are really
                useful against the last boss.


L a v e n d e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's Strength rating by
                1.
     Acquire:   · Find the herbs in chests in dungeons.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   900 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Lavender
    Comments:    Quite a good item, but it would be a waste to use it
                as it is. By transforming it into a Red Lavender, you
                can double its effect.


L e m o n   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A lemon flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 60% of
                your HP.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on an Apple Gummy or a Pine Gummy.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   250 Gald
  Transforms:   Pine Gummy
    Comments:    A great item to get you out of some icky situations.
                Too bad you don't find them too often, and you have to
                use a Rune Bottle to make them.


L i f e   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The water of life revives a dead ally.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   300 Gald
        Sell:   150 Gald
    Comments:    Obviously, anyone in his/her right mind would know
                that these are a MUST when entering any dungeon.


L i p s t i c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Use this to make your lips sexy! Try flirting at
                shops!
What it does:   Gets you a 30% discount at stores when used!
     Acquire:   · Get it as a prize for beating the coliseum seven
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   11,000 Gald
    Comments:    Quite a good item, too bad you should be already
                swimming in a pool of money by the time you get it.


L o t u s   P e r f u m e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Makes you more alluring. Use it to get a 50% discount
                at stores!
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Charm Bottle.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   10,500 Gald
    Comments:    Very useful when you need to get expensive equipment.


M a h   J o n g   T i l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Great for a quick game or to throw at some enemies!
What it does:   Several pieces of Mah Jongg (a Chinese game) will be
                dropped on the enemy, each hurting the enemy for about
                2,000 HP.
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on an Ivory Tusk.
                · Take an Ivory Tusk to the ivory carver at Aegis'
                  Workshop (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
    Comments:    A great item, especially for the last couple of
                battles...


M e d i c i n a l   H e r b
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. An ancient Chinese remedy.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town.
     Acquire:   · Pick six of them in the White Forest in the past and
                  six more in the future (see sections 3.22 and 3.26
                  of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Euclid
                in the past (21,000 Gald) and Alvanista in the future
                (30,000 Gald).
    Comments:    Great for selling, since they have no other use and
                you can get twelve of them.


M e d i c i n e   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Cures poison, but reduces your strength by 20% if used
                in battle.
What it does:   Not only it cures poison, it also prevents
                petrification.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   60 Gald
        Sell:   30 Gald
    Comments:    A good item, just not too useful once Mint learns the
                Antidote.


M i x e d   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A strange flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 30% of
                your HP & TP.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   2,000 Gald
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
  Transforms:   Miracle Gummy
    Comments:    Great for quick healing and regaining TP in though
                battles.


M i r a c l e   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A great flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 60% of
                your HP & TP.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Mixed Gummy.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
    Comments:    Just plain great... Almost as effective as an Elixir,
                but you can have as many as you want.


O r a n g e   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An orange flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 30% of
                your TP.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   200 Gald
        Sell:   100 Gald
  Transforms:   Pine Gummy
    Comments:    A great item during the whole game. Even though its
                price seems a little high in the beginning, it quickly
                becomes inexpensive.


P a i n t i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. A traditional Japanese painting.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town.
     Acquire:   · Buy one from a man in the Ninja Village for 30,000
                  Gald (see section 4.3 of Part I).
                · Get one from the 'Ninjas at Euclid' quest (see
                  section 4.7 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Venezzia
                (47,000 Gald).
    Comments:    Actually, it's not really profitable to sell this,
                but since there's no other use for it...


P i c k - a x e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Use to break down thin stone walls.
     Acquire:   You can buy Pick-axes at several stores. The first
                place where you can get one is Harmel Village, and you
                MUST buy one there in order to advance in the game.
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   150 Gald
        Sell:   75 Gald
    Comments:    You can't get past a certain part of the game without
                one of these, that makes it a must-have. Don't sell
                it, you never know when you need to break a stone
                wall...


P i n e   G u m m y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pine flavored gelatin medicine. Restores 60% of your
                TP.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on an Orange Gummy or a Lemon Gummy.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   500 Gald
  Transforms:   Lemon Gummy
    Comments:    Twice as good as an Orange Gummy. My only complaint
                is that they should be available at stores.


R e d   L a n t e r n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A lantern with a red flame. Gives off a soft red
                light.
What it does:   When used, it gives the field screen a reddish look.
                This may help you see some things in the dark rooms of
                the Moria Gallery.
     Acquire:   Get it from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
    Comments:    Besides what I mentioned above, there's no real use
                for this item...


R e d   L a v e n d e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's Strength rating by
                2.
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Lavender.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1110 Gald
    Comments:    A great item. Note that since the effect of these
                herbs is always the same, you should use them as soon
                as you get them.


R e d   S a g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's HP rating by 10%.
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Sage or Red Savory.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   600 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Savory
    Comments:    Great item. However, you should try to save until you
                really need the extra HP.


R e d   S a v o r y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's TP rating by 10%.
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Savory or Red Sage.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   600 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Sage
    Comments:    Great item. However, you should try to save until you
                really need the extra TP.


R e d   V e r b e n a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's Agility rating by
                2.
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Verbena.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1255 Gald
    Comments:    A great item. Note that since the effect of these
                herbs is always the same, you should use them as soon
                as you get them.


R e m e d y   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A cure-all medicine for ailments.
What it does:   Heals every single status ailment. During and after
                battles.
         Use:   Battle/Field
         Buy:   105 Gald
        Sell:   52 Gald
    Comments:    One of the most useful items in the whole game. Never
                enter a dungeon without a few of them.


R o p e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A must-have for anyone venturing into caves or
                climbing mountains!
     Acquire:   You can buy Ropes at several stores. The first place
                where you can get one is Harmel Village, and you MUST
                buy one there in order to advance in the game.
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   100 Gald
        Sell:   50 Gald
    Comments:    You can't get past a certain part of the game without
                one of these, that makes it a must-have. You should
                always have one with you, just in case...


R u n e   B o t t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Use this to identify unknown items or transform some
                items.
What it does:   Using a Rune Bottle on certain items will transform
                them, usually for the better.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   3,500 Gald
        Sell:   1,750 Gald
    Comments:    One of the greatest items in the game. You should
                always have a few of them with you.


S - F l a g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. A flag with a large 'S' painted on it.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town. It can also be
                used to revive an ally with full HP in battle.
     Acquire:   · Choose as your prize after beating the racing kid in
                  Alvanista in the future (see section 4.1 of Part I).
                · Get one from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                  section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Venezia
                (382,500 Gald).
    Comments:    If you are going to sell these, try to keep at least
                one of them for the last battles, just in case.


S a g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's HP rating by 5%.
     Acquire:   · Find the herbs in chests in dungeons.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
                · Receive sometimes after fighting a party of a Hell
                  Lord and two Yuinarus in the lower levels of the
                  Moria Gallery.
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   300 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Sage
    Comments:    A great item. However, you should transform them into
                Red Sages and save them for when you really need them,
                as the effect will be greater.


S a k e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. An excellent Japanese plum wine.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town. It can also be
                in battle to completely recover an ally's HP, TP and
                Status.
     Acquire:   · Get nine from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                  section 4.4 of Part I).
                · Get one from the 'Ninjas at Euclid' quest (see
                  section 4.7 of Part I).
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Miguel
                in the future (150,000 Gald).
    Comments:    Great for the last battles. You should try to avoid
                selling these if possible...


S a v o r y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's TP rating by 5%.
     Acquire:   · Find the herbs in chests in dungeons.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   250 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Savory
    Comments:    A great item. However, you should transform them into
                Red Savories and save them for when you really need
                them, as the effect will be greater.


S c o u t   O r b
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An orb that can repel or attract enemies.
What it does:   When you use it, it gives you the option raise or
                diminish the random encounter rate. It can be used
                infinite times and doesn't wear off like the Holy and
                Dark Bottles.
     Acquire:   You can get this item in the Lower Levels of the
                Moria Gallery (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   382,500 Gald
    Comments:    This item is especially useful when you get it, since
                it is found at the end of the Moria Gallery, and you
                have to leave there on foot!


S e f i r a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases your EXP and gold gained in battle by 10%.
What it does:   As long as you have this item, you will get bonus EXP
                and Gald in battles.
     Acquire:   Get it from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   11,000 Gald
  Transforms:   Sefira+1
    Comments:    Mighty useful, but you should use a Rune Bottle on it
                to get a 20% bonus in EXP and Gald.


S e f i r a + 1
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases the gold and EXP you gain in battle by 20%.
What it does:   As long as you have this item, you will get bonus EXP
                and Gald in battles.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle to transform the Sefira you get from
                the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see section 4.4 of</pre><pre id="faqspan-3">
                Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,500 Gald
    Comments:    Well, what can I say...


S k e l e t o n   K e y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Opens several doors in Thor.
     Acquire:   You can find it in one of the eight chests in the
                'Common Room' in Thor.
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
    Comments:    The Skeleton Key is part of the annoying random door
                system in the 'Common Room' in Thor. You will have to
                try several times to get where you want to go...


S o u p   P o t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. A soup pot.
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town. It can also be
                used as an ingredient for Oden.
     Acquire:   · Get one from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                  section 4.4 of Part I).
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum twice
                  in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get only 1 Gald everywhere
                but at the Ninja Village, where you get 50,000 Gald.
    Comments:    You don't get much money by selling this, it's better
                to use it to make Oden at the Ninja Village.


S p y   L e n s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Use this to see the HP, TP and other information on
                enemies.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   10 Gald
        Sell:   5 Gald
    Comments:    A good item for boss battles, as knowing the enemy's
                HP and elemental weakness will get you one step closer
                to victory.


V e r b e n a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mystical herb increases one's Agility rating by
                1.
     Acquire:   · Find the herbs in chests in dungeons.
                · Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum five
                  times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Use:   Field
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   750 Gald
  Transforms:   Red Verbena
    Comments:    Quite a good item, but it would be a waste to use it
                as it is. By transforming it into a Red Verbena, you
                can double its effect.


W h a l e   M e a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. Whale meat is a delicacy!
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town.
     Acquire:   Get twelve from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   N/A
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at the
                Elven Village in the future (200,000 Gald).
    Comments:    There's not much to say about this. It's sad that by
                the time you get this item, you probably don't have
                anything to buy.


Y e l l o w   C a k e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A trading good. Careful! It's really explosive stuff!
What it does:   This item (just like all the other trading goods) is
                valuated differently in every town. It can also be
                in battle to create an explosion that hurts enemies.
     Acquire:   The only way to get Yellow Cakes is by finding them in
                chests in dungeons.
         Use:   Battle
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   Depends on the city. You get the best deal at Olive
                Village in the future (240,000 Gald).
    Comments:    Not much to say... Using it in battle is kind of a
                waste unless you are fighting desperately.




¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.2- Food List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


NOTE: ·  The easiest way to get the uncommon items will be displayed
         next to 'Acquire'.
      ·  'Food Value' shows how much the item adds to your Food Sack.
      ·  'Buy' and 'Sell' show the price of the item when (guess what)
         buying and selling.
      ·  'Transforms' refers to what you get by using a Rune Bottle on
         the item.


A p p l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A delicious apple!
  Food Value:   60
         Buy:   1 Gald
        Sell:   1 Gald
  Transforms:   Japanese Apple
    Comments:   A great food item! You get 60 points for your Food
                Sack for each Gald spent. This is very useful when
                filling your Food Sack early on...


B e e f
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Beef. It's what's for dinner.
  Food Value:   700
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Sirloin Steak.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   550 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


B o a r   R o a s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Try it cajun style!
  Food Value:   120
     Acquire:   Receive after fighting certain beast-type enemies (the
                Coyotes near Midgard in the past, for example).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   20 Gald
  Transforms:   Pork Roast
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


B r e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Try not to fill up on bread.
  Food Value:   10
         Buy:   5 Gald
        Sell:   2 Gald
  Transforms:   Burger
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get 2 points for your
                Food Sack for each Gald you spent.


B u r g e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A good old greasy burger.
  Food Value:   200
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Bread.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   3050 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


B u t t e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Just pop this up and watch yourself gain 10 pounds!
  Food Value:   2,000
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Twinkie.
                · Buy at the Ninja Village.
         Buy:   900 Gald
        Sell:   450 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get about 2 points for
                your Food Sack for each Gald you spent.


C h e e s e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A standard hunk of cheddar.
  Food Value:   400
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Creamy Cheese.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1050 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


C h i c k e n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A meat for the health conscious.
  Food Value:   100
     Acquire:   Receive sometimes after fighting some bird-tipe
                enemies.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   75 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


C r e a m y   C h e e s e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A nice camembert.
  Food Value:   20
         Buy:   10 Gald
        Sell:   5 Gald
  Transforms:   Cheese
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get 2 points for your
                Food Sack for each Gald you spent.


D r a g o n   S t e a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This beef has been spiced to taste like dragon meat.
  Food Value:   2,000
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Steak
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1250 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


E g g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An egg. One of the ingredients of oden.
  Food Value:   80
     Acquire:   Buy from a person standing near the item shop in Olive
                Village in the future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   80 Gald
        Sell:   3,140 Gald
    Comments:   This item is needed to make Oden at the Ninja Village
                and can also be used to make money, since each egg
                costs 80 Gald and can be sold for lots of money.


J a p a n e s e   A p p l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This is a very special apple!
  Food Value:   1,000
     Acquire:   · Buy at the Ninja Village.
                · Use a Rune Bottle on an Apple.
         Buy:   600 Gald
        Sell:   300 Gald
    Comments:   A nice food item. You get about 3 points for your Food
                Sack every two Gald you spent.


M a c k e r e l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A mackerel. Smells kinda funny.
  Food Value:   2,000
         Buy:   3,400 Gald
        Sell:   1,700 Gald
  Transforms:   Tuna
    Comments:   A quite bad food item. You get about 1 point for your
                Food Sack every two Gald you spent.


M i s o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   It's miso. One of the ingredients of oden.
  Food Value:   1,000
     Acquire:   Buy at the Ninja Village.
         Buy:   80,000 Gald
        Sell:   40,000 Gald
    Comments:   This item is needed to make Oden at the Ninja Village.


O d e n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A tasty bowl of oden!
  Food Value:   22,200
     Acquire:   Take Miso, Radish, Seaweed, Pudding, an Egg and a Soup
                Pot to an old lady at the Ninja Village (see section
                4.8 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   300,000 Gald
    Comments:   This is the ultimate food item. It can fill up your
                Food Sack at once, too bad you probably don't rely
                much in the Food Sack system by the time you get it.
                It's still useful though, as it can be sold for lots
                of money.


P o r k   R o a s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Pork. The other white meat.
  Food Value:   1,000
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Boar Roast.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   50 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


P u d d i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A potato based pudding. It's very sweet!
  Food Value:   60
     Acquire:   Buy at the Ninja Village.
         Buy:   10,030
        Sell:   5,015 Gald
    Comments:   A quite bad food item. You get about 1 point for your
                Food Sack every 169 Gald you spent.


R a d i s h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A potent flavored vegetable. One of the ingredients of
                oden.
  Food Value:   100
     Acquire:   Buy at Euclid in the future.
         Buy:   20,000 Gald
        Sell:   10,000 Gald
    Comments:   This item is needed to make Oden at the Ninja Village.


S e a f o o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sushi grab-bag!
  Food Value:   300
     Acquire:   Buy at Venezzia.
         Buy:   60 Gald
        Sell:   30 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get 5 points for your
                Food Sack for each Gald spent.


S e a w e e d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   It's seaweed. One of the ingredients of oden.
  Food Value:   2
     Acquire:   Buy at Venezzia in the future.
         Buy:   1,580 Gald
        Sell:   790 Gald
    Comments:   This item is needed to make Oden at the Ninja Village.


S i r l o i n   S t e a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This is top of the line beef.
  Food Value:   80
         Buy:   40 Gald
        Sell:   20 Gald
  Transforms:   Beef
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get 2 points for your
                food bag for each Gald you spent.


S t e a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Grade A sirloin... yum!
  Food Value:   260
         Buy:   180 Gald
        Sell:   90 Gald
  Transforms:   Dragon Steak
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get about 3 points for
                your food bag every 2 Gald you spent.


T u n a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Raw Tuna. Where's the wasabi?
  Food Value:   3,000
     Acquire:   · Use a Rune Bottle on a Mackerel.
                · Buy at the Ninja Village.
         Buy:   2,100 Gald
        Sell:   1,050 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get about 3 points for
                your Food Sack every two Gald you spent.


T w i n k i e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   There's more BHT in this that you can shake a stick
                at!
  Food Value:   150
         Buy:   100 Gald
        Sell:   50 Gald
  Transforms:   Butter
    Comments:   Just a normal food item. You get 3 points for your
                Food Sack every two Gald you spent.


V e a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   For a gourmet meal, how about some kiddie cow?
  Food Value:   1,000
     Acquire:   Receive sometimes after fighting certain enemies,
                especially the Baby Boars at the Spirit Forest (in the
                future).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   200 Gald
    Comments:   Just a normal food item...


V e g g i e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Nothing like some fresh greens to pep you up!
  Food Value:   220
     Acquire:   · Buy at the store in the ninth level of the Moria
                  Gallery.
                · Receive sometimes after fighting certain enemies,
                  like the D. Flowers just outside of the town of Ary.
         Buy:   340 Gald
        Sell:   170 Gald
    Comments:   A quite bad food item. You get about 1 point for your
                Food Sack every 2 Gald you spent.



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.3- Weapon List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 Note that swords, spears and axes can only be equipped on Cless, bows
can only be used by Chester, rods by Mint, books by Klarth and brooms
by Arche.

NOTE: ·  Next to 'Equip' will be displayed the characteristics of the
         weapon (i.e. how much it adds to certain stats).
      ·  The easiest way to get the weapons will be displayed next to
         'Acquire'.
      ·  'Buy' and 'Sell' show the price of the item when (guess what)
         buying and selling.
      ·  'Transforms' refers to what you get by using a Rune Bottle on
         the weapon.

                          =================
                          -  S w o r d s  -
                          =================


D a m a s c u s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A light, quick sword. It is flexible but durable.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Miguel Village in the
                future.
         Buy:   22,700 Gald
        Sell:   11,350 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     350       Acy       5
                Stab      315


D e m o n   H a n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This sword gets blacker with every deadly blow it
                delivers.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon dropped by some of
                the enemies in the lower levels of the Moria Gallery
                (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   162,500 Gald
       Equip:   Slice    1300       Acy      10
                Stab     1100
     Element:   Darkness


D e s t r o y e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword the consumes TP, but increases critical hit
                rate.
     Acquire:   Buy at Freezekill in the future.
         Buy:   60,000 Gald
        Sell:   30,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     630       Acy      10
                Stab      290


D r a g o n   T o o t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword made from the tooth of a giant dragon.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapons dropped by some of
                the enemies in Volt's Cavern.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   31,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     220       Acy      30
                Stab      750
     Element:   Earth


D u e l i s t ' s   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword presented by kings in knighthood ceremonies.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on one of the ?Weapons you get in
                the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see section 4.4 of
                Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   34,750 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     800       Acy      10
                Stab      780
     Element:   Earth


E p e e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A rapier. It is sharper and lighter than most.
     Acquire:   You can buy this sword at Alvanista in the Past.
         Buy:   1,400 Gald
        Sell:   700 Gald
       Equip:   Slice       8       Acy      25
                Stab       26


E t e r n a l   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword that embodies all the mysteries of time and
                space.
     Acquire:   Take the Flamberge and Vorpal swords to the Heimdal
                Stone in the Treant's Forest in the future (see
                section 3.29 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice     910       Acy      10
                Stab      910
    Comments:   This sword is needed to access the final dungeon. It
                is quite powerful and is non-elemental, making it
                great for some of the rounds in the Coliseum.


E x c a l i b u r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword given to an ancient paladin by God.
     Acquire:   Find as a ?Weapon at the bottom of the Moria Gallery
                in the future (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice    1390       Acy      50
                Stab     1390
     Element:   Darkness
    Comments:   The best sword for Cless in the whole game. Its only
                flaw is that it is a Darkness elemental, which a
                problem during some of the rounds of the Coliseum.


F l a m b e r g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Odin's legendary weapon. Fire envelopes the blade.
     Acquire:   Receive after fighting Flambelk at Odin's Tower (see
                section 3.28 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice     900       Acy      10
                Stab      900
     Element:   Fire
    Comments:   A great weapon, especially if you go to Fenrir's
                Cavern after visiting Odin's Tower. You lose this
                sword after Origin combines it with the Vorpal sword.


F l a m i n g   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This blade burns victims with a searing flame.
     Acquire:   Buy as a ?Weapon for 100,000 Gald at Olive Village in
                the future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   50,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     580       Acy      20
                Stab      595
     Element:   Fire


H o l y   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword enchanted by high priests.
     Acquire:   Buy as a ?Weapon for 50,000 Gald at Alvanista in the
                future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   25,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     480       Acy      30
                Stab      480
     Element:   Light


I c e   C o f f i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword containing the soul of a slain ice dragon.
     Acquire:   Buy as a ?Weapon for 100,000 Gald at Ary in the
                future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   70,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     595       Acy      10
                Stab      580       Def       5
     Element:   Water


I c e   S c i m i t a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword with a blade as cold as ice.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon you get after the
                fight with Meia.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   5,500 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     108       Acy      15
                Stab       60
     Element:   Water


K n i g h t ' s   S a b r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword used by Euclid's elite black armored guards.
     Acquire:   Get it at Cless' house, upstairs, after Totus is
                attacked (see section 3.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice      15       Acy      10
                Stab        8
     Element:   Fire
    Comments:   Although you can get this great weapon right before
                going to Euclid, you should wait until you are going
                to the mausoleum cave. Otherwise, you lose this weapon
                when you are jailed.


L a s e r   B l a d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A technological creation that creates a blade of light
                energy.
     Acquire:   This weapon can be bought at Freezekill in the future.
         Buy:   200,010 Gald
        Sell:   100,005 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     850       Acy      60
                Stab      650
     Element:   Light


L o n g s w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A standard longsword about three feet in length.
     Acquire:   Cless' initial weapon, you can buy it at Euclid in the
                present.
         Buy:   140 Gald
        Sell:    70 Gald
       Equip:   Slice       5       Acy       0
                Stab        5


L u c k y   B l a d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword that increases the holder's luck.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on one of the ?Weapons you get in
                the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see section 4.4 of
                Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   60,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     800       Acy      80
                Stab      800       Luck     50


M o o n   F a l u x
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword with a faint glow to it.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapons dropped by some of
                the enemies in Dhaos' Fortress in the Past.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   28,300 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     260       Acy      10
                Stab      200
     Element:   Light


M u r a m a s a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This blade is so sharp, no pain is felt from the
                wounds it inflicts.
     Acquire:   Receive from Lanzo at the Ninja Village (see section
                4.3 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   112,800 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     910       Acy     100
                Stab      780       Def       5
     Element:   Earth


R a p i e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword designed to stab enemies.
     Acquire:   You can buy this sword at Euclid in the present.
         Buy:   180 Gald
        Sell:    90 Gald
       Equip:   Slice       2       Acy      20
                Stab        9


S a b r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A slashing sword.
     Acquire:   This weapon can be bought at Euclid in the Present.
         Buy:   200 Gald
        Sell:   100 Gald
       Equip:   Slice       8       Acy       0
                Stab        5


S a i n t ' s   R a p i e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A holy sword used by crusading paladins.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon dropped by some of
                the enemies in the final dungeon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   144,500 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     300       Acy      10
                Stab     1600
     Element:   Light


S h a r p   S a b r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sabre capable of delivering a thin slice.
     Acquire:   This weapon can be bought at Beladum and Harmel in the
                past.
         Buy:   700 Gald
        Sell:   350 Gald
       Equip:   Slice      25       Acy       0
                Stab       18


S i n c l a i r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A well-made sabre.
     Acquire:   This weapon can be bought at Venezzia in the Future.
         Buy:   23,700 Gald
        Sell:   11,850 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     424       Acy       0
                Stab      220


S l a y e r   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword used by barbarians to cut down three people at
                once.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon dropped by some of
                the enemies outside of Midgard in the past.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   5,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     200       Acy      30
                Stab      200
     Element:   Earth


S p i n e s h e a t h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A rapier used by assassins for backstabbing victims.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon you find in the
                second floor of the final dungeon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   34,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     700       Acy      10
                Stab     1200
     Element:   Darkness


V e r d a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A rapier. It is made of high quality steel.
     Acquire:   This weapon can be bought in Harmel Village in the
                past.
         Buy:   700 Gald
        Sell:   350 Gald
       Equip:   Slice       4       Acy       0
                Stab       28


V o r p a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Fenrir's legendary weapon. It is as cold as ice.
     Acquire:   Receive after fighting Fang Wolf at Fenrir's Cavern
                (see section 3.27 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice     900       Acy      10
                Stab      900
     Element:   Water
    Comments:   A great weapon, especially if you go to Odin's Tower
                after visiting Fenrir's Cavern. You lose this sword
                after Origin combines it with the Flamberge sword.


W a r r i o r   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sword longer than most.
     Acquire:   You can buy this sword at Beladum and several other
                places in the past.
         Buy:   1,600 Gald
        Sell:     800 Gald
       Equip:   Slice      50       Acy       3
                Stab       50



                          =================
                          -  S p e a r s  -
                          =================


A r c   W i n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A spear with a torrent of air swirling about it.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon dropped by some of
                the enemies in Fenrir's Cavern.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   75,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     860       Acy      50
                Stab      720       Def       1
     Element:   Wind


C o r s e s q u e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A triple prolonged spear.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Venezzia in the past. You
                can also get one from a chest in Demitel's island.
         Buy:   2,400 Gald
        Sell:   1,200 Gald
       Equip:   Slice      50       Acy       0
                Stab      156


G l a i v e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pole with a sabre blade on the tip.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Miguel Village in the
                future.
         Buy:   22,500 Gald
        Sell:   11,250 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     210       Acy       0
                Stab      424


G u n g n i r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Odin's spear used duting Ragnarok. It seems to have a
                life of its own...
     Acquire:   You get this weapon as part of the storyline after
                defeating Jahmir at Alvanista. Note that you also lose
                it as part of the storyline later.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Slice      96       Acy       5       Run       5
                Stab      122       Def       1


H a l b e r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The halberd combines the best qualities of the axe and
                spear.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Alvanista and Midgard in
                the past.
         Buy:   4,000 Gald
        Sell:   2,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     105       Acy       5
                Stab      105


M e c h a - H a l b e r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A strange mechanical weapon of unique design.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Midgard in the past. You
                can also find two of them at Dhaos' Fortress in the
                same period.
         Buy:   22,000 Gald
        Sell:   11,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     200       Acy       6
                Stab      210


N a g i n a t a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A lightweight polearm in the Japanese style.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at the Ninja Village.
         Buy:   180,000 Gald
        Sell:    90,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     600       Acy      60
                Stab      900


P o l e a r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A blade on the end of a pole.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Alvanista in the future.
         Buy:   44,600 Gald
        Sell:   22,300 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     850       Acy       0
                Stab      150


T i d a l   A x e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A halberd with enchanted water forged into its steel.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on one of the ?Weapons you get in
                the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see section 4.4 of
                Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   45,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     840       Acy      10
                Stab      640
     Element:   Water



                            =============
                            -  A x e s  -
                            =============


B a h a m u t ' s   T a i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The legendary axe used to slay the King of Dragons.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Weapon you find in the
                bridge area of the 19th level of the Moria Gallery in
                the future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   497,500 Gald
       Equip:   Slice    1290       Acy      10
                Stab     1290
     Element:   Darkness


B a r d i s h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A more sophisticated version of the Crescent Axe.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Alvanista in the past.
         Buy:   2,980 Gald
        Sell:   1,490 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     115       Acy      10
                Stab       15


B a t t l e   A x e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A barbarian's axe.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Harmel village in the past.
         Buy:   700 Gald
        Sell:   350 Gald
       Equip:   Slice      35       Acy      10
                Stab        2


C r e s c e n t   A x e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An axe with a blade shaped like a crescent moon.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Harmel village in the past.
         Buy:   1,800 Gald
        Sell:     900 Gald
       Equip:   Slice      65       Acy       0
                Stab       10


H a r d   C l e a v e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A light, speedy axe forged by the famous blacksmith
                Damascus.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Venezzia in the future.
         Buy:   32,000 Gald
        Sell:   16,000 Gald
       Equip:   Slice     500       Acy      10
                Stab      100





                            =============
                            -  B o w s  -
                            =============


B e r s e r k e r   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A quick bow used to repel armies of enemy invaders.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a ?Weapon dropped by certain
                enemies at the lower levels of the Moria Gallery in
                the future (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   240,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack   1820
                Acy        95
    Comments:   This bow is GREAT. Although it is the second most
                powerful bow (after the Soul Stealer), it is THE BEST.
                Why? Well, it shoots two arrows at once, that's why!


C o m p o s i t e   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow made from many different materials.
     Acquire:   This bow can be bought at Alvanista in the future.
         Buy:   3,000 Gald
        Sell:   1,500 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    500
                Acy        10


C r e s c e n t   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow that glows faintly.
     Acquire:   This bow can be bought at Freezekill and Aegis'
                Workshop in the future (see section 3.26).
         Buy:   74,000 Gald
        Sell:   37,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack   1320
                Acy        10
     Element:   Thunder


D o u b l e   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow that can shoot two arrows in the time normal
                bows shoot one.
     Acquire:   This bow can be bought at Miguel Village and several
                other places in the future.
         Buy:   7,000 Gald
        Sell:   3,500 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    620
                Acy        10


E l v e n   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   It is said that elven bows never miss their mark.
     Acquire:   Pay 20,000 Gald to the owner of the Bow Store at the
                Elven Village to have the Broken Bow repaired. Go to
                the inn and stay there, then go to the Bow Store to
                receive the Elven Bow.
         Buy:   20,000 Gald
        Sell:   20,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack   1590
                Acy       200


F l a r e   S p r e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow enchanted with fire. Effective against water
                beings.
     Acquire:   · Beat the racing boy at Alvanista (in the future) and
                  choose the third prize, then use a Rune Bottle on
                  it. This can be done up to three times only, and the
                  other prizes are much better.
                · Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Bow dropped by certain
                  enemies at the Molten Cavern and Odin's Tower.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   53,600 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    800
                Acy        50
     Element:   Fire


G a l e   S p r e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow enchanted with air. Effective against earth
                beings.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Bow found in Fenrir's Cavern
                in the future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   53,600 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    800
                Acy        50
     Element:   Wind


L o n g b o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A wooden longbow.
     Acquire:   This bow can be bought at Euclid in the past.
         Buy:   200 Gald
        Sell:   100 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     20
                Acy        10


S a n d   S p r e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow enchanted with earth. Effective against air
                beings.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a ?Bow dropped by certain enemies
                at the lower levels of the Moria Gallery in the future
                (see section 4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   53,600 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    800
                Acy        50
     Element:   Earth


S h o r t b o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A wooden shortbow.
     Acquire:   Chester's initial weapon, it can be bought at Euclid
                in the past.
         Buy:   50 Gald
        Sell:   25 Gald
       Equip:   Attack      8
                Acy        10


S o u l   S t e a l e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Drain's the user's life to deliver extra damage.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Bow you get after the fight
                with Origin.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   140,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack   1700
                Acy        60
     Element:   Darkness


W a v e   S p r e a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bow enchanted with water. Effective against fire
                beings.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Bow bought at Ary for
                100,000 Gald.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   70,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    800
                Acy        50
     Element:   Water



                           ===============
                           -  B o o k s  -
                           ===============


B o o k   S e a l s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book of true black magic.
     Acquire:   To get this book, use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book found
                in the second floor of the final dungeon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   150,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    700       Run      30
                Acy        50


E x   M o r t i s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book with black pages filled with dark incantations.
     Acquire:   To get this book, use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book found
                at Fenrir's Cavern in the future (see section 3.27 of
                Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   64,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    500
                Acy        60


G r i m o r u m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book filled with arcane runes scrawled all over.
     Acquire:   You find this book in Volt's Cavern in the future.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   4,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    350
                Acy        10


N a m c o   G a m e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Don't waste your time reading this magazine!
     Acquire:   You can get this weapon from the 'Ayflite's Treasure'
                quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Attack    765       Def       1
                Acy         1       Run       1
    Comments:   This is a shameless plug AND Klarth's ultimate weapon.


O p u s c u l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book from a subterranean library destroyed millennia
                ago.
     Acquire:   You get this weapon after defeating Jahmir at
                Alvanista in the past.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     60
                Acy        30


P o r n o   M a g a z i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Better hide this from your parents!
     Acquire:   To get this, use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book found at
                the harbor in Demitel's island. There are other places
                to get it, but it's completely worthless.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   9000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack      3
                Acy        10
    Comments:   No, this is not the same as the Porno Magazine in
                Final Fantasy IV, you can't use it. It's just a
                weapon, and it's not even as good as Klarth's initial
                weapon.


R a b i o n i s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book with pages yellowed by age. Its text is written
                in blood.
     Acquire:   To get this book use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book you
                find in Demitel's chamber (see section 3.10 of Part
                I). You can get another one by using a Rune Bottle on
                the ?Book you get after the fight with Undine.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   16,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     70
                Acy        10


S e v e n t h   S u n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book written in a long forgotten eastern language.
     Acquire:   To get this book, use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book found
                in Odin's Tower in the future (see section 3.28).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   64,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    500       Run      50
                Acy        10


T o m e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book full of notes and magical research.
     Acquire:   This is Klarth's initial weapon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   500 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     20
                Acy        10


T r a c t a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book covered in the hides of various animals.
     Acquire:   You find this book in the second floor of the Tower of
                Twelve Stars.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    120
                Acy        10


Y e l l o w   K i n g s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book with red pages written in a bright yellow ink.
     Acquire:   To get this book, use a Rune Bottle on the ?Book you
                get after the fight with Demitel.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   4,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     60
                Acy         1



                            =============
                            -  R o d s  -
                            =============


B l u e   C r y s t a l   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A blue crystal on this staff houses the very soul of
                Ishtar.
     Acquire:   You can get this rod at the forest around the Ninja
                Village in the future(see section 4.3 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   100,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    420
                Acy        10
    Comments:   The Blue Crystal Rod is Mint's ultimate weapon.


G e m   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A staff with a fake jewel at the top.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Venezzia and Alvanista in
                the past.
         Buy:   600 Gald
        Sell:   300 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     15
                Acy        10


H o l y   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A staff of high priests.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Freezekill in the future.
         Buy:   6,000 Gald
        Sell:   3,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    180
                Acy        10
     Element:   Light


R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A traveler's walking stick.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Euclid and Morrison's house
                in the present.
         Buy:   10 Gald
        Sell:    5 Gald
       Equip:   Attack      2
                Acy        10


R u b y   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A staff with a gold encrusted ruby at the top.
     Acquire:   You can buy this weapon at Alvanista in the past.
         Buy:   1,240 Gald
        Sell:     620 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     30
                Acy        10


R u n e   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A staff with a series of runes carved in the ebony
                wood.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the ?Rod you find in the treasure
                room of the Moria Gallery after defeating Maxwell in
                the past.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,500 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     85
                Acy        10
     Element:   Darkness


S t a r   R o d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The tip of this staff glows like the stars at night.
     Acquire:   Get it as a prize for beating the coliseum eight times
                in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I). You can
                also get one by using a Rune Bottle on a ?Staff found
                at the second floor of the final dungeon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   21,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    330
                Acy        10


U n i c o r n   H o r n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The Unicorn's horn. You can feel immense power
                radiating from it.
     Acquire:   You get this rod as part of the storyline in the past
                (see section 3.22 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Attack    135       Def      12
                Acy        10



                          =================
                          -  B r o o m s  -
                          =================


B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Just an average broom.
     Acquire:   This is Arche's starting weapon.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   15 Gald
       Equip:   Attack     20
                Acy        10


M a g i c a l   B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This broom was brought here by a mage from another
                world.
     Acquire:   You find this broom in a chest in Dhaos' Fortress in
                the past (see section 3.21 of Part I). You can also
                get one as prize for beating the coliseum seven times
                (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   9,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    200
                Acy        10


M y s t i c   B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A broom made with enchanted silver bristles.
     Acquire:   You find this broom in a chest in the seventh level of
                the Moria Gallery (see section 3.15 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,800 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    100
                Acy        10


S t a r   B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Stardust drops from the bristles of this broom.
     Acquire:   You get one of these by talking to the owner of the
                inn at the Elven Village in the future. You can also
                get one as a prize for beating the Coliseum eight
                times (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A</pre><pre id="faqspan-4">
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    640
                Acy        10


S y l p h   B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Wind spirits enchanted this broom with their magic.
     Acquire:   You find this broom in a chest in Volt's Cavern (see
                section 3.25 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,800 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    380
                Acy        10
     Element:   Wind


W i t c h   B r o o m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A brooms witches ride on.
     Acquire:   You can buy this broom at the Elven Village in the
                future.
         Buy:   1,980 Gald
        Sell:     990 Gald
       Equip:   Attack    500
                Acy        10



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.4- Armor List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


NOTE: ·  Next to 'Equip' will be displayed the characteristics of the
         equipment (i.e. how much it adds to certain stats).
      ·  The easiest way to get the items will be displayed next to
         'Acquire'.
      ·  'Buy' and 'Sell' show the price of the item when (guess what)
         buying and selling.
      ·  'Transforms' refers to what you get by using a Rune Bottle on
         the item.
      ·  The names of the characters who can be equipped with the item
         will be displayed next to 'On Who?'.

                         ===================
                         -  H e l m e t s  -
                         ===================

A r m e t   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This helm protects both the head and the face from
                being crushed.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Venezzia, Alvanista and
                Olive Village and Midgard (all of them in the past).
                It can also be bought at Olive Village in the future.
         Buy:   1,320 Gald
        Sell:     660 Gald
       Equip:   Def         5
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


B e r e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A cloth cap.
     Acquire:   This is Mint's initial helmet.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   150 Gald
       Equip:   Def         1
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth


B l u e   R i b b o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A blue ribbon.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Alvanista and Olive
                Village in the past. It can also be bought at Olive
                Village in the future.
         Buy:   840 Gald
        Sell:   420 Gald
       Equip:   Def         5
                Run         5
     On Who?:   Arche


F e s t i v e   R i b b o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A bright red ribbon.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Venezzia, Alvanista,
                Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the future).
         Buy:   7,500 Gald
        Sell:   3,750 Gald
       Equip:   Def        18
                Run        20
     On Who?:   Arche


G o l d   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The gold helm of Gilgamesh of the Ishtar Legend.
     Acquire:   Get it from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest (see
                section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Def        28
                Run        20
     On Who?:   Cless
    Comments:   This is the best Helmet Cless for Cless.


I r o n   C i r c l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A guard's steel cap.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Beladum, Euclid, Harmel
                and Venezzia (all of them in the past).
         Buy:   840 Gald
        Sell:   420 Gald
       Equip:   Def         3
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


K n i g h t   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A standard issue helm for knights.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Miguel, Euclid, Venezzia,
                Alvanista, Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the
                future).
         Buy:   5,000 Gald
        Sell:   2,500 Gald
       Equip:   Def        10
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


L e a t h e r   H a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A leather cap.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Euclid in the present and
                Beladum in the past.
         Buy:   600 Gald
        Sell:   300 Gald
       Equip:   Def         1
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


M a g e   R i b b o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An imbued ribbon.
     Acquire:   Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum seven
                times in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   100,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        25
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Arche


M i t r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A hat worn by priests and clerics.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Harmel and Venezzia (both
                of them in the past).
         Buy:   800 Gald
        Sell:   400 Gald
       Equip:   Def         3
                Run         5
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth


P a l a d i n   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A helm kings give to knights who have been decorated
                in battle.
     Acquire:   You get this helmet as a ?Helm at Odin's Burning Tower
                and Fenrir's Ice Cavern.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   20,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        19
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


P a n a m a   H a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A hat for naturalists.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Alvanista and Olive
                Village in the past. It can also be bought at Olive
                Village in the future.
         Buy:   1,420 Gald
        Sell:     710 Gald
       Equip:   Def         5
                Run         5
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth


R a r e   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Houses the soul of Aegis, an ancient blacksmith.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Aegis' Workshop in the
                future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   31,000 Gald
        Sell:   15,500 Gald
       Equip:   Def        20
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless
     Element:   Thunder


R i b b o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pink ribbon.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Venezzia, Alvanista and
                Freezekill (all of them in the future).
         Buy:   10 Gald
        Sell:    5 Gald
       Equip:   Def         2
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Arche


S i l k   H a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A stylish, well-made hat.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Midgard in the past.
         Buy:   3,600 Gald
        Sell:   1,800 Gald
       Equip:   Def        12
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth


S t a r   C a p
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An enchanted cap to protect the wearer.
     Acquire:   Get three as ?Helms at Odin's Burning Tower, the lower
                levels of the Moria Gallery and the final dungeon
                (sections 3.28, 4.5 and 3.31 of Part I). You also get
                one of these after beating the coliseum eight times in
                the future (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   90,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        16
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth


S t a r   H e l m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A helm made from an unfamiliar alloy.
     Acquire:   Get one as a prize for beating the coliseum nine times
                in the future (see section 4.6 of Part I) and one as a
                ?Helm in the final dungeon (see section 3.31 of Part
                I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   40,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        26
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


S t r i p p e d   R i b b o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A candy cane ribbon.
     Acquire:   This helmet can be bought at Midgard in the past.
         Buy:   4,000 Gald
        Sell:   2,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def         9
                Run        10
     On Who?:   Arche



                           ===============
                           -  A r m o r  -
                           ===============

A m b e r   C l o a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   An amber colored amber cloth cloak.
     Acquire:   This cloak can be bought at Beladum, Euclid, Harmel
                and Venezzia (all of them in the past).
         Buy:   610 Gald
        Sell:   305 Gald
       Equip:   Def         6
                Run        20
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche


B r e a s t   P l a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A thick metal plate covering the torso of the wearer.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Alvanista (in the
                past) and Olive Village (past and future).
         Buy:   3,600 Gald
        Sell:   1,800 Gald
       Equip:   Def        13
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


C h a i n   M a i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Small interlocking metal rings form chain mil shirts.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Euclid (present),
                at Morrison's house (present & future) and at Beladum
                (past).
         Buy:   900 Gald
        Sell:   450 Gald
       Equip:   Def         4
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


C l o a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A thick warm cloak.
     Acquire:   This is Mint's initial armor.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   6 Gald
       Equip:   Def         3
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche


D a r k   R o b e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The dark robe of a witch.
     Acquire:   This robe can be bought at the Elven Village in the
                future.
         Buy:   10,000 Gald
        Sell:    5,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        50       Acy        15
                Run        15
     On Who?:   Arche
     Element:   Earth, Water, Fire, Thunder and Wind
    Comments:   This is the best armor for Arche. Even though its
                defensive power is not a good as that of the Star
                Cloak, it absorbs five elements.


G a i a   A r m o r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gilgamesh of Ishtar's golden armor.
     Acquire:   You get two of these as ?Armors at the final dungeon
                (see section 3.31 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   400,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        60
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester
     Element:   Water, Fire, Thunder, Light, Darkness


G o l d e n   A r m o r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gilgamesh of Ishtar's golden armor.
     Acquire:   You get this piece of armor as a ?Armor in the 19th
                level of the Moria Gallery in the future (see section
                4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Def        65
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless
     Element:   Fire, Thunder, Wind, Darkness
    Comments:   This is Cless' best armor. It has the highest defense
                rating of all his armors and absorbs several elements.


H o l y   C l o a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This type of cloak is worn by high priests and
                paladins.
     Acquire:   This cloak can be bought at Miguel, Euclid, Venezzia,
                Alvanista, Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the
                future).
         Buy:   56,000 Gald
        Sell:   28,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        25
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint and Klarth
     Element:   Thunder


M i t h r i l   M e s h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Chain mail made of Mithril, an enchanted silver.
     Acquire:   Two of these can be found as ?Armors at the 10th level
                of the Moria Gallery after defeating Maxwell, in the
                past (see section 3.15 of Part I). You can also buy
                them at Miguel, Euclid, Venezzia, Alvanista,
                Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the future).
         Buy:   30,000 Gald
        Sell:   15,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        18
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
     Element:   Light


M i t h r i l   P l a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Plate mail made of Mithril, an enchanted silver.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Venezzia,
                Alvanista, Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the
                future).
         Buy:   50,000 Gald
        Sell:   25,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        28
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester
     Element:   Light


P l a t e   M a i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Interlocking metal plates to cover the entire body.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Midgard in the
                past.
         Buy:   24,500 Gald
        Sell:   12,250 Gald
       Equip:   Def        18
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


R a r e   P l a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Houses the soul of Aegis, an ancient blacksmith.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Aegis' Workshop
                in the future (see section 3.26).
         Buy:   82,000 Gald
        Sell:   41,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        38
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester and Klarth
     Element:   Fire


R e f l e c t   P l a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Magically reflective armor.
     Acquire:   Two of these can be found as ?Armors at Odin's Burning
                Tower and the lower levels of the Moria Gallery (see
                sections 3.28 and 4.5 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   100,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        35
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester
     Element:   Water, Thunder, Wind, Darkness


R i n g   M a i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Discs of metal woven together provide excellent
                protection.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Beladum, Euclid,
                Harmel and Venezzia (all of them in the past).
         Buy:   1,200 Gald
        Sell:     600 Gald
       Equip:   Def         7
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


S i l v e r   C l o a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A cloak woven from silver threads.
     Acquire:   This cloak can be bought at Alvanista, Olive Village
                and Midgard (all of the in the past). It can also be
                bought at Olive Village in the future.
         Buy:   2,500 Gald
        Sell:   1,250 Gald
       Equip:   Def        12
                Run        25
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche


S i l v e r   P l a t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Plate armor made of pure silver.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be found at Fenrir's Ice
                Cavern in the future (see section 3.27 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   20,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        37
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


S p l i n t   M a i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A shirt of plates and rings to cover the upper body.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Venezzia and
                Alvanista (both of them in the past).
         Buy:   1,900 Gald
        Sell:     950 Gald
       Equip:   Def         9
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


S t a r   C l o a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A cloak that glows like the clouds in the night sky.
     Acquire:   You get 4 of these as ?Armors at Volt's Cave, Fenrir's
                Ice Cavern, Odin's Burning Tower and the final dungeon
                in the future (see sections 3.25, 3.27, 3.28 and
                3.31). You can also get one as a prize for beating the
                Coliseum eight times (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   450,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        55
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche
     Element:   Water, Darkness


T u n i c
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A leather tunic.
     Acquire:   This piece of armor can be bought at Euclid in the
                present.
         Buy:   120 Gald
        Sell:    60 Gald
       Equip:   Def         2
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester and Klarth




                         ===================
                         -  S h i e l d s  -
                         ===================

A n k h   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A paladin's shield, forged of iron blessed by priests.
     Acquire:   You can find two of these shields, one at Odin's
                Burning Tower and the other at Fenrir's Ice Cavern
                (see sections 3.27 and 3.28 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   17,500 Gald
       Equip:   Def         5
                Run        95
     On Who?:   Cless


B l u e   L i n e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The Blue Line Shield raises the user's courage and
                valor.
     Acquire:   You can get this shield from the 'Ayflite's Treasure'
                quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   200,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        25
                Run       100
     On Who?:   Cless
    Comments:   This is the best shield for Cless.



F i n e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A sturdy, yet lightweight shield.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Midgard in the past.
         Buy:   15,800 Gald
        Sell:    7,900 Gald
       Equip:   Def         0
                Run        80
     On Who?:   Cless


K i t e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A practical, lightweight shield.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Euclid, Harmel and
                Venezzia (all of them in the past).
         Buy:   600 Gald
        Sell:   300 Gald
       Equip:   Def         0
                Run        60
     On Who?:   Cless


K n i g h t   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A well-made soldier's shield.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Venezzia and Alvanista
                (both of them in the past).
         Buy:   1,150 Gald
        Sell:     575 Gald
       Equip:   Def         0
                Run        70
     On Who?:   Cless


R a r e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Houses the soul of Aegis, an ancient blacksmith.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Aegis' Workshop in the
                future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   48,500 Gald
        Sell:   24,250 Gald
       Equip:   Def        15
                Run       100
     On Who?:   Cless


R e d   L i n e   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The Red Line Shield raises the user's courage and
                valor.
     Acquire:   You can get this shield from the 'Ayflite's Treasure'
                quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   200,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        15
                Run       100
     On Who?:   Cless


R o u n d   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A round, metal shield.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Euclid (present) and
                Morrison's house (present and future) and at Beladum
                (past).
         Buy:   300 Gald
        Sell:   150 Gald
       Equip:   Def         0
                Run        40
     On Who?:   Cless


S h i e l d   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This magic ring creates an invisible shield around the
                wearer.
     Acquire:   There are four of these. One at Volt's Cave, another
                at Fenrir's Ice Cavern and two more at Odin's Burning
                Tower (see sections 3.25, 3.27 and 3.28 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   150,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        20
                Run       100
     On Who?:   Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
    Comments:   This is the only shield that your non-fighting
                characters can wear.


S t a r   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A shield made of a strange metal taken from a fallen
                meteor.
     Acquire:   You can get one of these shields at the final dungeon
                (see section 3.31 of Part I) and as a prize for
                beating the Coliseum nine times (see section 4.6 of
                Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   30,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        23
                Run       100
     On Who?:   Cless


W o o d e n   S h i e l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A round, wooden shield.
     Acquire:   This shield can be bought at Euclid in the present.
         Buy:   50 Gald
        Sell:   25 Gald
       Equip:   Def         0
                Run        30
     On Who?:   Cless



                          =================
                          -  G l o v e s  -
                          =================

C u t e   M i t t e n s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Pretty to keep your hands warm in the cold weather.
     Acquire:   There are two pairs of these. One at Fenrir's Ice
                Cavern and the other one at Odin's Burning Tower (see
                sections 3.27 and 3.28 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   25,250 Gald
       Equip:   Def        15
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Mint and Arche
    Comments:   These are the only gloves that Mint and Arche can
                equip.


G a u n t l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Iron plated gloves.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be bought at Alvanista, Olive Village
                and Midgard (all of them in the past). It can also be
                bought at Olive Village in the past.
         Buy:   1,200 Gald
        Sell:     600 Gald
       Equip:   Def         4       Attack    5
                Run         0       Acy       5
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


H y p e r   G a u n t l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   These gauntlets give your hands a life of their own.
     Acquire:   You can get these gauntlets from the 'Ayflite's
                Treasure' quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Def        26
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless
    Comments:   These are the best gloves for Cless.


I r o n   G l o v e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Mesh gloves to protect hands.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be bought at Venezzia in the past.
         Buy:   600 Gald
        Sell:   300 Gald
       Equip:   Def         2
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


L e a t h e r   G l o v e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pair of leather work gloves.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be bought at Euclid (present and
                past), Morrison' House (present and future), Beladum
                (past), Harmel (past) and Venezzia (past).
         Buy:   150 Gald
        Sell:    75 Gald
       Equip:   Def         1
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless


M i t h r i l   G l o v e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gauntlets made from Mithril, an enchanted silver.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be bought at Venezzia, Alvanista,
                Freezekill and Ary (all of them in the future).
         Buy:   10,000 Gald
        Sell:    5,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        10
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester


R a r e   G a u n t l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Houses the soul of Aegis, an ancient blacksmith.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be bought at Aegis' Workshop in the
                future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   59,400 Gald
        Sell:   29,700 Gald
       Equip:   Def        15
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester
     Element:   Earth


S t a r   G l o v e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gloves made from a strange alloy.
     Acquire:   These gloves can be found at the final dungeon. You
                also get a pair of these as a prize for beating the
                Coliseum nine times (see section 4.6 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   15,000 Gald
       Equip:   Def        24
                Run         0
     On Who?:   Cless and Chester



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.5- Accessory List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


NOTE: ·  Next to 'Equip' will be displayed the characteristics of the
         accessory (i.e. how much it adds to certain stats).
      ·  Next to 'Equip' will be displayed the special characteristics
         of the accessory.
      ·  The easiest way to get the accessories will be displayed next
         to 'Acquire'.
      ·  'Buy' and 'Sell' show the price of the item when (guess what)
         buying and selling.
      ·  'Transforms' refers to what you get by using a Rune Bottle on
         the accessory.
      ·  The names of the characters who can be equipped with the
         accessory will be displayed next to 'On Who?'.


A m e t h y s t   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from earth.
     Acquire:   You find this ring in a chest at Long Valley in the
                future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Earth elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Shadow,
                the Spirit of Darkness (see section 3.26 of Part I).


A q u a   M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Marked with the sign of the Ocean. Water and Air are
                30% absorbed.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Leather Mantle or a Flame
                Mantle to get this accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   800 Gald
       Equip:   Def         1
     Special:   The wearer will take less damage from Water and Wind.
                It also gives you a good chance of totally avoiding
                damage from those elements.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Flame mantle


A q u a m a r i n e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from water.
     Acquire:   You receive this ring from Runeglom at Alvanista in
                the past (see section 3.11 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Water elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Undine,
                the Spirit of Water (see section 3.12 of Part I).


A r m l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Decreases the amount of time one is rendered
                unconscious by half.
     Acquire:   These are commonly found in chests through the game.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   12,150 Gald
     Special:   The wearer will recover consciousness twice as fast if
                stunned in battle.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


B a t t l e   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases your attack power by 10%.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista and Olive Village in
                the past and at most towns in the future.
         Buy:   7,200 Gald
        Sell:   3,600 Gald
       Equip:   Acy         8
     Special:   Attack + 10%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


B l a c k   O n y x
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A jewel that increases the user's maximum HP by 30%.
     Acquire:   You find this accessory in chests through the game.
                You get the first one after defeating Jahmir at
                Alvanista (see section 3.11 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   10,600 Gald
     Special:   The character equipped with this will be granted 30%
                extra HP.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Moon Crystal


B l u e   T a l i s m a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This magical talisman increases your defense by 10%.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Talisman to get this accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,100 Gald
     Special:   Def + 10%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


B o d y   A m u l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Protects the wearer from paralyzation.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista in the past and at
                most towns in the future.
         Buy:   26,200 Gald
        Sell:   13,100 Gald
     Special:   The wearer can't be paralyzed.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


C o m b o   C o m m a n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   With the right controller movements, any skill can be
                used in battle!
     Acquire:   This accessory can only be bought at Aegis' Workshop
                in the future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   5,000,000 Gald
        Sell:   2,500,000 Gald
     Special:   You will be able to use any of Cless' skills in battle
                by pressing the right combinations of buttons.
     On Who?:   Cless


D a r k   S e a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This allows you to receive 50% more EXP but renders
                skills useless.
     Acquire:   You can get this from the 'Ayflite's Treasure' quest
                (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   Cless gets extra experience points, but he can't use
                his skills.
     On Who?:   Cless
  Transforms:   Demon Seal


D e d i s   E m b l e m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The use and origin of this item aren't known.
     Acquire:   You get one from a soldier in Ary and you must find
                another four in a certain section of the final dungeon
                (see section 3.31 of Part I). Note that some of the
                enemies in the final dungeon may drop these
                occasionally.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1 Gald
     Special:   You can't get past a certain part of the final dungeon
                without one of these equipped on each character.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


D e f l e c t   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This ring absorbs magic attacks, but has a 50% chance
                of disintegrating.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Resist Ring or a Force Ring.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,030 Gald
     Special:   Protects the user from magical attacks, but has a 50%
                chance of breaking after negating a spell.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Force Ring


D e m o n   S e a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Doubles the EXP you gain in battle but prevents you
                from using skills.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on the Dark Seal to get this
                accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   5,150 Gald
     Special:   Cless gets extra experience points, but he can't use
                his skills and his defense drops to zero.
     On Who?:   Cless


D i a m o n d   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from magic.
     Acquire:   You get this ring at Thor in the past, after beating a
                boss (see section 3.23 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Attack    100       Acy      40
                Def       200       Run      40
     Special:   Klarth won't take damage from certain elements while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Origin,
                the Spirit of Creation (see section 3.29 of Part I).


E l v e n   B o o t s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Elven boots are made to increase your speed by 20%.
     Acquire:   One pair of these can be found at the final dungeon
                and other two pairs can be gotten from the 'Ayflite's
                Treasure' quest (see sections 3.31 and 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   6,200 Gald
     Special:   Battle Speed + 20%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint and Klarth
  Transforms:   Nightmare Boots


E l v e n   M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Allows you to escape battles 10% faster.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at the Elven Village in the
                future.
         Buy:   9,560 Gald
        Sell:   4,780 Gald
       Equip:   Def        12
     Special:   Run + 10%
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


E m e r a l d   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is granted bonus HP.
     Acquire:   You find this ring inside a chest at the Cave of
                Spirits in the future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth's maximum HP will be increased by 30% while he
                he is equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Chameleon,
                the Spirit of Death (see section 4.5 of Part I).


E v i l   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Makes you immune to the effects of the Death Cloud
                spell.
     Acquire:   There appears to be no way to get this accessory
                through normal gameplay. It was found using cheats.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   The character equipped with this should be immune to
                the Death Cloud spell, but there are no enemies that
                use that spell, so it remains unconfirmed.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


F a i r y   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Decreases the TP needed to use magic by half.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Jade Ring to get this
                accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   38,410 Gald
     Special:   Reduces the TP cost of spells by a third.
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche


F i g h t   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A rune to summon a monster.
     Acquire:   There appears to be no way to get this accessory
                through normal gameplay. It was found using cheats.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   The use of this accessory is unknown, but there's
                probably no use for it anyway.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


F l a m e   M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Marked with the sign of Magma. Fire and earth are 30%
                absorbed.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Mantle or an Aqua Mantle to get
                this accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   750 Gald
       Equip:   Def         1
     Special:   The wearer will take less damage from Fire and Earth.
                It also gives you a good chance of totally avoiding
                damage from those elements.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Aqua mantle


F o r c e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This ring absorbs melee attacks, but has a 50% chance
                of disintegrating.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Protect Ring or a Deflect Ring
                to get this accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,030 Gald
     Special:   Protects the user from physical attacks, but has a 50%
                chance of breaking after taking a hit.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Deflect Ring


G a r n e t   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from fire.
     Acquire:   You receive this ring from Runeglom at Alvanista in
                the past (see section 3.11 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Fire elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Ifrit,
                the Spirit of Fire (see section 3.13 of Part I).


G o r g o n   A m u l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Protects the wearer from petrification.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista in the future.
         Buy:   46,200 Gald
        Sell:   23,100 Gald
     Special:   The wearer can't be petrified.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


H e a v y   S t o n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Makes you immune to the effects of the Tractor Beam
                spell. 
     Acquire:   You can get a few of these from chests and enemies
                through the game. You get the first one at Morrison's
                house in the present.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1 Gald
     Special:   The wearer will be immune to the Tractor Beam spell.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


H o l y   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases your max HP by 5%.
     Acquire:   This accessory can be bought at most shops in the past
                and the future.
         Buy:   10,000 Gald
        Sell:    5,000 Gald
     Special:   The character equipped with this will be granted 5%
                extra HP.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


I r o n   B o o t s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Iron Boots make you heavier, decreasing your speed by
                half.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Euclid (present and past),
                Harmel (past), Venezzia (past and future) and Ary
                (future).
         Buy:   1,010 Gald
        Sell:     505 Gald
     Special:   Halves your Battle Speed.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester and Klarth
  Transforms:   Persian Boots
    Comments:   This accessory seems to be useless by itself. Its true
                purpose seems to be becoming a pair of Persian Boots
                when you use a Rune Bottle on it.


J a d e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Reduces your TP costs by a third.
     Acquire:   You get these at certain dungeons and from some
                bosses. You get your first one from Dhaos in the past.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   3,500 Gald
     Special:   Reduces the TP cost of skills by a third.
     On Who?:   Cless, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Fairy Ring


J e t   B o o t s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   You can run faster by pressing and holding the
                'Cancel' button.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at most towns through the game.
         Buy:   210 Gald
        Sell:   105 Gald
     Special:   While one of your characters is equipped with these,
                you can sprint by pressing the 'Cancel' button.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


L e a t h e r   M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Leather mantles are waterproof.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at most stores in the past and
                future.
         Buy:   100 Gald
        Sell:    50 Gald
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Aqua mantle
    Comments:   This accessory seems to be useless by itself. Its true
                purpose seems to be becoming an Aqua Mantle when you
                use a Rune Bottle on it.


M a g i c   P o u c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pouch that will spout items while you are walking!
     Acquire:   You can get this at the final dungeon (see section
                3.31 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   6,000 Gald
     Special:   Random items will appear in your inventory while you
                walk with this equipped.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Magical Pouch


M a g i c a l   P o u c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   When walking, this pouch may add random items to your
                inventory!
     Acquire:   You get this as a prize for beating the Coliseum seven
                times (see section 4.6 of Part I). You can also get it
                by using a Rune Bottle on the Magic Pouch.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   40,000 Gald
     Special:   Random items will appear in your inventory while you
                walk with this equipped.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


M a n a   E a r r i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The unicorn symbolizes Mana. Enhances one's Mana
                powers.
     Acquire:   You get this accessory after a special scene at Ary in
                the future, right before entering the final dungeon
                (see section 3.30 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Attack    100       Acy      50
                Def        20       Run      50
     On Who?:   Mint


M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A plain traveler's mantle.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Euclid in the present and
                Beladum and Euclid in the past.
         Buy:   20 Gald
        Sell:   10 Gald
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Flame mantle
    Comments:   This accessory seems to be useless by itself. Its true
                purpose seems to be becoming a Flame Mantle when you
                use a Rune Bottle on it.


M e n t a l   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Gradually restores TP in battle.
     Acquire:   You get one of these from a mini-game in Alvanista
                (see section 4.2 of Part I). You also find some of
                these in dungeons.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   16,000 Gald
       Equip:   Attack      5
                Run         5
     Special:   The character equipped with this will recover 1 TP
                every a few seconds in battle.
     On Who?:   Cless, Mint, Klarth and Arche


M i s t   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Allows you to escape battles 50% faster.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a White Mist to get this
                accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,500 Gald
     Special:   Halves the time needed to escape battles.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


M o o n   C r y s t a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A jewel that increases the user's maximum TP by 30%.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Black Onyx to get this
                accessory. You can also get one at Odin's Tower and
                from the 'Aiflite's Treasure' quest.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   10,600 Gald
     Special:   The character equipped with this will be granted 30%
                extra TP.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Black Onyx


M o o n s t o n e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from light.
     Acquire:   You get this ring in the Treant's Forest, at the
                Heimdall stone (see section 3.17 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Light elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Luna, the
                Spirit of the Moon (see section 3.19 of Part I).


M y s t i c a l   R u n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Halves the time needed to cast a magic spell.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista, Olive Village and
                the Elven Village in the past and at most towns in the
                future.
         Buy:   65,800 Gald
        Sell:   32,900 Gald
     Special:   Reduces spell-casting time by half.
     On Who?:   Mint, Klarth and Arche


N i g h t m a r e   B o o t s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This pair of boots is enchanted by dream magic. Ups
                speed by 50%.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a pair of Elven Boots or Persian
                Boots.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,550 Gald
     Special:   Battle Speed + 50%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint and Klarth
  Transforms:   Persian Boots


N y m p h ' s   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A ring with a watery stone. Renders the bearer immune
                to heat.</pre><pre id="faqspan-5">
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Salamander's Ring.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1 Gald
     Special:   The wearer becomes immune to fire, even the magma on
                the floor of some rooms at Odin's Tower won't hurt
                him/her.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Salamander's Ring


O p a l   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is granted extra
                defense.
     Acquire:   You get this ring from Bart at Long valley (see
                section 3.7 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Def        15
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Sylph, the
                Spirit of Wind (see section 3.7 of Part I).


P e r s i a n   B o o t s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This pair of boots looks like cat paws. Increases
                defense by 30%.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a pair of Iron Boots or Nightmare
                Boots.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,400 Gald
     Special:   Decreases damage taken by 30%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint and Klarth
  Transforms:   Nightmare Boots


P o i s o n   A m u l e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Protects the wearer from poison.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista in the past and at
                most towns in the future.
         Buy:   6,200 Gald
        Sell:   3,100 Gald
     Special:   The wearer is immune to poison.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


P r i n c e s s   C a p e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This translucent silk hood has a 50% chance to negate
                fire.
     Acquire:   Use a Rune Bottle on a Silver Cape to get this
                accessory.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   2,025 Gald
       Equip:   Def         8
                Run        15
     Special:   The wearer will take less damage from Fire. It also
                gives you a good chance of totally avoiding Fire
                damage.
     On Who?:   Mint and Arche


P r o t e c t   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This ring absorbs melee attacks, but has a 99% chance
                of disintegrating.
     Acquire:   These are commonly found in chests in dungeons.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   600 Gald
     Special:   Protects the user from physical attacks, but has a 99%
                chance of breaking after taking a hit.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Force Ring


R a b b i t ' s   F o o t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Increases the bearer's luck.
     Acquire:   This accessory can be bought at most towns in the past
                and the future.
         Buy:   200 Gald
        Sell:   100 Gald
     Special:   Luck + 10%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


R e s i s t   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This ring absorbs magic attacks, but has a 99% chance
                of disintegrating.
     Acquire:   These are commonly found in chests in dungeons.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   600 Gald
     Special:   Protects the user from magical attacks, but has a 99%
                chance of breaking after negating a spell.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Deflect Ring


R e v e r s e   D o l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Revives you if knocked out, but has a 99% chance of
                disintegrating.
     Acquire:   These are commonly found in chests through the game.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   The wearer is revived with 25% of his/her HP
                immediately after being killed, but the accessory has
                a 99% chance of breaking.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


R u b y   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer becomes a stronger
                fighter.
     Acquire:   Arche gives you this ring when she joins the party
                (see section 3.9 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
       Equip:   Attack     50
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Gnome, the
                Spirit of Earth (see section 3.14 of Part I).


S a l a m a n d e r ' s   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A ring with a fiery stone. Renders the bearer immune
                to cold.
     Acquire:   This accessory is dropped by the Karys at Odin's
                Tower. You can also get it by using a Rune Bottle on a
                Nymph's Ring.
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1 Gald
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Nymph's Ring
    Comments:   This accessory seems to have no effect by itself. Its
                true purpose is becoming a Nymph's Ring when you use
                a Rune Bottle on it.


S a r d o n y x   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from wind.
     Acquire:   You get this ring from doctor Stanley at future Euclid
                (see section 3.24 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Wind elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Volt, the
                Spirit of Electricity (see section 3.25 of Part I).


S a p p h i r e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is shielded from
                thunder.
     Acquire:   You get this ring from a chest at Undine's Cavern in
                the future (see section 3.26 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth will absorb Thunder elemental damage while
                equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Gremlin, 
                the Spirit of Pain and Panic (see section 4.5 of Part
                I).


S i l v e r   C a p e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This girl's mantle has a 30% chance of negating fire
                attacks.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista and Olive Village in
                the past and at most towns in the future.
         Buy:   3,300 Gald
        Sell:   1,650 Gald
     Special:   The wearer will take less damage from Fire. It also
                gives you a good chance of totally avoiding Fire
                damage.
     On Who?:   Mint and Arche
  Transforms:   Princess cape


S i l v e r   M a t t o c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Renders the wearer immune to many common magic spells. 
     Acquire:   Choose as your prize after beating the racing kid in
                Alvanista in the future (see section 4.1 of Part I).
                You can also get one from the 'Ayflite's Treasure'
                quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   The wearer will be immune to the Ice Wall, Stone Wall
                and Fire Wall spells.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


S o r c e r e r ' s   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This ring shoots sparks! Use it with the 'Target'
                button.
     Acquire:   This ring is found at the Molten Cavern in the past
                (see section 3.13 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   While one of your characters is equipped with the
                Sorcerer's Ring, you can press the 'Y' button to shoot
                sparks in the field screen.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


T a l i s m a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A magic charm to raise all your resistances by 5%.
     Acquire:   This accessory can be bought at most towns in the past
                and the future.
         Buy:   2,000 Gald
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   Def + 5%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Blue Talisman


T h i e f ' s   M a n t l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Wool mantles help you run away 5% faster.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Alvanista, Olive Village and
                Midgard in the past and at most towns in the future.
         Buy:   2,000 Gald
        Sell:   1,000 Gald
     Special:   Run + 5%
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche


T o p a z   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer becomes a smarter
                fighter.
     Acquire:   You get this ring in the Treant's Forest, at the
                Heimdall stone (see section 3.17 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth's critical hit rate increases.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Aska, the 
                Spirit of Light (see section 3.26 of Part I).


T u r q u o i s e   R i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A Summoner's ring. The wearer is granted bonus TP.
     Acquire:   You find this ring in a chest at the Moria Gallery in
                the past (see section 3.15 of Part I).
         Buy:   N/A
        Sell:   N/A
     Special:   Klarth's maximum TP will be increased by 30% while he
                is equipped with this ring.
     On Who?:   Klarth
    Comments:   This ring is needed to make a contract with Maxwell,
                the Spirit of Judgement (see section 3.15 of Part I).


W h i t e   M i s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Allows you to escape battles 30% faster.
     Acquire:   These can be bought at Venezzia, Alvanista, Olive
                Village and the Elven Village in the past and at most
                towns in the future.
         Buy:   5,100 Gald
        Sell:   2,550 Gald
     Special:   Reduces the time needed to escape battles by 30%.
     On Who?:   Cless, Chester, Mint, Klarth and Arche
  Transforms:   Mist Rune



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
II.6- Treasure List
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


P e n d a n t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The pendant Miguel gave you for your fifteenth
                birthday.
     Acquire:   You start the game with this in your 'Treasure List'.
         Use:   Malice takes it from you at Euclid and uses it to
                release Dhaos.

E a r r i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The mysterious earring from the Euclid dungeon.
     Acquire:   You receive the Earring while you are in jail at
                Euclid (see section 3.3 of Part I).
         Use:   The Earring helps Cless escape from jail. You lose it
                soon after that, at Morrison's House.

L a c e   R u b y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A living gem. It is used as a key for enchanted doors.
     Acquire:   You find the Lace Ruby at the mausoleum near the
                beginning of the game (see section 3.4 of Part I).
         Use:   This is used to open some doors in the mausoleum near
                the beginning of the game (see section 3.4 of Part I).

T o r n i x ' s   B o o k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The book given to you by Tornix D. Morrison.
     Acquire:   You receive this from Tornix at the mausoleum after
                Dhaos' revival (see section 3.4 of Part I).
         Use:   By reading this book, Cless and Mint learn that their
                parents and Tornix had sealed Dhaos.

B r o k e n   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   The broken bow that belonged to your best friend.
     Acquire:   Cless finds Chester's bow on the ground after he and
                Mint are sent to the past by Tornix D. Morrison (see
                section 3.5 of Part I).
         Use:   By paying 20,000 Gald at the Ninja Village in the
                future, you can have this transformed into the
                powerful Elven Bow (see section 3.26 of Part I).

E l e m e n t a l   O r b
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A magic orb that enables one to speak to Mana Spirits.
     Acquire:   You get the Elemental Orb from Sylph at Long Valley,
                before forging a contract (see section 3.7 of Part I).
         Use:   This allows you to talk to Martel, the Spirit of the
                Tree of Life.

M a g i c   K e y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A key from Demitel's castle.
     Acquire:   You get the Magic Key at Demitel's castle (see section
                3.9 of Part I).
         Use:   This key is used to open a door at Demitel's castle
                (see section 3.9 of Part I).

M o r i a   P a s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A permit from Alvanista's King to enter the Moria
                Gallery.
     Acquire:   You get the Moria Pass at the Adventurer's Guild in
                Alvanista (see section 3.11 of Part I).
         Use:   This pass is needed to enter the Moria Gallery.

R o y a l   E m b l e m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A permit from Alvanista's King to enter the Ymir
                Forest.
     Acquire:   You get the Royal Emblem from Runeglom at Alvanista,
                after you meet Edward (see section 3.17 of Part I).
         Use:   This is needed to enter the Ymir Forest.

S m a l l   S a c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A food sack. It can hold a maximum of 200 food units.
     Acquire:   You start the game with this in your 'Treasure List'.
         Use:   If you put food in this sack, your party will regain
                HP by eating from it while walking.

M e d i u m   S a c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A food sack. It can hold a maximum of 2000 food units.
     Acquire:   You get this from Lenios' wife at Beladum (see section
                3.5 of Part I).
         Use:   If you put food in this sack, your party will regain
                HP by eating from it while walking.

L a r g e   S a c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A food sack. It can hold a maximum of 20,000 food
                units.
     Acquire:   You can buy this from a woman at Miguel in the future
                for 30,000 Gald (see section 3.24 of Part I).
         Use:   If you put food in this sack, your party will regain
                HP by eating from it while walking.

L e t t e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A letter from Runeglom to Edward.
     Acquire:   You get this from Runeglom at Alvanista after visiting
                the Moria Gallery (see section 3.16 of Part I).
         Use:   This is needed to speak to Edward's wife, Lilith.

B r o k e n   R i n g s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Two broken contract rings found in the Moria Gallery.
     Acquire:   You get these at the Treasure Room of the Moria
                Gallery (see section 3.15 of Part I).
         Use:   With Rambard's help, these are be transformed into the
                Moonstone and Topaz Rings at the Heimdall Stone (see
                section 3.17 of Part I).

M a g m a   K e y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A key found in the Molten Cavern.
     Acquire:   You get this at the Molten Cavern in Freland (see
                section 3.13 of Part I).
         Use:   The Magma Key is used to open a locked door in the
                Molten Cavern.

M a g n e t i c   C a r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A magnetic card found in a building in the city of
                Thor.
     Acquire:   You get this at Thor in the past (see section 3.23 of
                Part I).
         Use:   The Magnetic Card is used to open a special door at
                Thor.

M a g i c   M i r r o r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   This mirror feels like it can pull you into another
                world.
     Acquire:   You get this at Dhaos' castle in the past (see section
                3.21 of Part I).
         Use:   The Magic Mirror is used to go through certain mirrors
                at Dhaos castle.

G o l d   K e y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A golden key from Dhaos' castle.
     Acquire:   You get this at Dhaos' castle in the past (see section
                3.21 of Part I).
         Use:   The Gold Key is used to open several doors in Dhaos'
                castle.

W i n g   P a c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A pack containing the Airbirds.
     Acquire:   You get this from Stanley at Euclid in the future
                after you forge a contract with Volt (see section 3.25
                of Part I).
         Use:   This allows you to fly on the world map by pressing
                the 'A' button.

A y f l i t e ' s   N o t e s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   A book of pirate treasure.
     Acquire:   You get this from Graham at Freezekill in the future
                (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   Once you have this, you can find Ayflite's Treasure
                (see section 4.4 of Part I).

R o s a ' s   D r e s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 Description:   Ayflite the Pirate King's wife's dress.
     Acquire:   You find this as part of the 'Ayflite's Treasure'
                quest (see section 4.4 of Part I).
         Use:   There's no real use to this. You can give it to
                Graham, but you won't get anything in exchange.


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
III.-                         SHOPS LIST
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================

¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
III.1- Shops in the Present
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


                        ===================
                        -  MOUNTAIN PASS  -
                        ===================

 ______________________________
| Mountain Pass: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                            ============
                            -  EUCLID  -
                            ============
 _______________________
| Euclid: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Longsword         Sword for Cless (Slice 5, Stab 5)            140 |
| Sabre             Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 5)            200 |
| Rapier            Sword for Cless (Slice 2, Stab 9)            180 |
| Shortbow          Bow for Chester (Attack 8, Acy 8)             50 |
| Longbow           Bow for Chester (Attack 20, Acy 10)          200 |
| Rod               Rod for Mint (Attack 2, Acy 10)               10 |
| Chain Mail        Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 4)          900 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Round Shield      Shield for Cless (Run 40)                    300 |
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Mantle            Accessory (useless by itself)                 20 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________
| Euclid: Items Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ________________________
| Euclid: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________
| Euclid: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Tunic             Armor for male characters (Def 2)            120 |
| Chain Mail        Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 4)          900 |
| Leather Hat       Helmet for Cless (Def 1)                     600 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Wooden Shield     Shield for Cless (Run 30)                     50 |
| Round Shield      Shield for Cless (Run 40)                    300 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Euclid: Weapons Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Longsword         Sword for Cless (Slice 5, Stab 5)            140 |
| Sabre             Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 5)            200 |
| Rapier            Sword for Cless (Slice 2, Stab 9)            180 |
| Shortbow          Bow for Chester (Attack 8, Acy 8)             50 |
| Longbow           Bow for Chester (Attack 20, Acy 10)          200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                       ======================
                       -  MORRISON'S HOUSE  -
                       ======================
 _________________________________
| Morrison's House: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Sabre             Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 5)            200 |
| Rapier            Sword for Cless (Slice 2, Stab 9)            180 |
| Longbow           Bow for Chester (Attack 20, Acy 10)          200 |
| Chain Mail        Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 4)          900 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Round Shield      Shield for Cless (Run 40)                    300 |
| Rod               Rod for Mint (Attack 2, Acy 10)               10 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
III.2- Shops in the Past
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


                            =============
                            -  BELADUM  -
                            =============
 _____________________
| Beladum: Items Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Mantle            Accessory (useless by itself)                 20 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Beladum: Weapons Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Longsword         Sword for Cless (Slice 5, Stab 5)            140 |
| Sabre             Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 5)            200 |
| Sharp Sabre       Sword for Cless (Slice 25, Stab 18)          700 |
| Rapier            Sword for Cless (Slice 2, Stab 9)            180 |
| Verdan            Sword for Cless (Slice 4, Stab 28)           700 |
| Battle Axe        Axe for Cless (Slice 35, Stab 2)             700 |
| Chain Mail        Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 4)          900 |
| Ring Mail         Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 7)        1,200 |
| Leather Hat       Helmet for Cless (Def 1)                     600 |
| Iron Circlet      Helmet for Cless (Def 3)                     840 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Round Shield      Shield for Cless (Run 40)                    300 |
| Amber Cloak       Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 6)     610 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                            ============
                            -  EUCLID  -
                            ============
 ________________________
| Euclid: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Euclid: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Sharp Sabre       Sword for Cless (Slice 25, Stab 18)          700 |
| Verdan            Sword for Cless (Slice 4, Stab 28)           700 |
| Battle Axe        Axe for Cless (Slice 35, Stab 2)             700 |
| Ring Mail         Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 7)        1,200 |
| Iron Circlet      Helmet for Cless (Def 3)                     840 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Kite Shield       Shield for Cless (Run 60)                    600 |
| Amber Cloak       Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 6)     610 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ___________________
| Euclid: Item Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Mantle            Accessory (useless by itself)                 20 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                            ============
                            -  HARMEL  -
                            ============
 ___________________
| Harmel: Item Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rope              Used to go down into certain holes           100 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Harmel: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Sharp Sabre       Sword for Cless (Slice 25, Stab 18)          700 |
| Warrior Sword     Sword for Cless (Slice 50, Stab 50)        1,600 |
| Verdan            Sword for Cless (Slice 4, Stab 28)           700 |
| Battle Axe        Axe for Cless (Slice 35, Stab 2)             700 |
| Crescent Axe      Axe for Cless (Slice 64, Stab 10)          1,800 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________
| Harmel: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Ring Mail         Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 7)        1,200 |
| Iron Circlet      Helmet for Cless (Def 3)                     840 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Kite Shield       Shield for Cless (Run 60)                    600 |
| Amber Cloak       Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 6)     610 |
| Mitre             Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 3)           210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                           ==============
                           -  VENEZZIA  -
                           ==============
 __________________________
| Venezzia: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Seafood           Food Item (Food Value 300)                    60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Venezzia: Item Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Venezzia: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Sharp Sabre       Sword for Cless (Slice 25, Stab 18)          700 |
| Warrior Sword     Sword for Cless (Slice 50, Stab 50)        1,600 |
| Verdan            Sword for Cless (Slice 4, Stab 28)           700 |
| Corsesque         Spear for Cless (Slice 50,Stab 156)        2,400 |
| Battle Axe        Axe for Cless (Slice 35, Stab 2)             700 |
| Crescent Axe      Axe for Cless (Slice 64, Stab 10)          1,800 |
| Gem Rod           Rod for Mint (Attack 15, Acy 10)             600 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Venezzia: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Ring Mail         Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 7)        1,200 |
| Splint Mail       Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 9)        1,900 |
| Iron Circlet      Helmet for Cless (Def 3)                     840 |
| Armet Helm        Helmet for Cless (Def 5)                   1,320 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Iron Gloves       Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 2)         600 |
| Kite Shield       Shield for Cless (Run 60)                    600 |
| Knight Shield     Shield for Cless (Run 70)                  1,150 |
| Amber Cloak       Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 6)     610 |
| Mitre             Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 3)           210 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________________________________________
| Vendor in the Ship at Demitel's Island: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                          ===============
                          -  ALVANISTA  -
                          ===============
 _____________________
| Alvanista: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ___________________________
| Alvanista: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ________________________
| Alvanista: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Warrior Sword     Sword for Cless (Slice 50, Stab 50)        1,600 |
| Corsesque         Spear for Cless (Slice 50,Stab 156)        2,400 |
| Crescent Axe      Axe for Cless (Slice 64, Stab 10)          1,800 |
| Halberd           Spear for Cless (Slice 105, Stab 105)      4,000 |
| Epee              Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 26)         1,400 |
| Bardish           Axe for Cless (Slice 115, Stab 15)         2,980 |
| Gem Rod           Rod for Mint (Attack 15, Acy 10)             600 |
| Ruby Rod          Rod for Mint (Attack 30, Acy 10)           1,240 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Alvanista: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Splint Mail       Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 9)        1,900 |
| Breast Plate      Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 13)       3,600 |
| Armet Helm        Helmet for Cless (Def 5)                   1,320 |
| Gauntlet          Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 4)       1,200 |
| Knight Shield     Shield for Cless (Run 70)                  1,150 |
| Silver Cloak      Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 12)  2,500 |
| Panama Hat        Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 5)         1,420 |
| Blue Ribbon       Helmet for Arche (Def 5)                     840 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Alvanista: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________________________________________
| Vendor in the Ship at Glaciated Cavern: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Warrior Sword     Sword for Cless (Slice 50, Stab 50)        1,600 |
| Corsesque         Spear for Cless (Slice 50,Stab 156)        2,400 |
| Crescent Axe      Axe for Cless (Slice 64, Stab 10)          1,800 |
| Gem Rod           Rod for Mint (Attack 15, Acy 10)             600 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                        ===================
                        -  OLIVE VILLAGE  -
                        ===================

 _______________________________
| Olive Village: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Olive Village: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________________
| Olive Village: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________________
| Olive Village: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Corsesque         Spear for Cless (Slice 50,Stab 156)        2,400 |
| Halberd           Spear for Cless (Slice 105, Stab 105)      4,000 |
| Bardish           Axe for Cless (Slice 115, Stab 15)         2,980 |
| Ruby Rod          Rod for Mint (Attack 30, Acy 10)           1,240 |
| Breast Plate      Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 13)       3,600 |
| Armet Helm        Helmet for Cless (Def 5)                   1,320 |
| Gauntlet          Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 4)       1,200 |
| Silver Cloak      Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 12)  2,500 |
| Panama Hat        Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 5)         1,420 |</pre><pre id="faqspan-6">
| Blue Ribbon       Helmet for Arche (Def 5)                     840 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                        ===================
                        -  ELVEN VILLAGE  -
                        ===================
 _______________________________
| Elven Village: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Elven Village: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________________
| Elven Village: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                           =============
                           -  MIDGARD  -
                           =============
 ___________________
| Midgard: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Midgard: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Midgard: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Midgard: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Mecha-Halberd     Spear for Cless (Slice 200, Stab 210)     22,000 |
| Halberd           Spear for Cless (Slice 105, Stab 105)      4,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Midgard: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Plate Mail        Armor for Cless (Def 18)                  24,000 |
| Fine Shield       Shield for Cless (Run 80)                 15,800 |
| Armet Helm        Helmet for Cless (Def 5)                   1,320 |
| Gauntlet          Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 4)       1,200 |
| Silver Cloak      Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 12)  2,500 |
| Silk Hat          Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 12)        3,600 |
| Stripped Ribbon   Helmet for Arche (Def 9)                   4,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
III.3- Shops in the Future
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-



                            ============
                            -  MIGUEL  -
                            ============
 ______________________
| Miguel: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Miguel: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Damascus          Sword for Cless (Slice 350, Stab 315)     22,700 |
| Glaive            Spear for Cless (Slice 210, Stab 424)     22,500 |
| Composite Bow     Bow for Chester (Attack 500, Acy 10)       3,000 |
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                            ============
                            -  EUCLID  -
                            ============
 ________________________
| Euclid: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
| Radish            Food Item (Food Value 100)                20,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 __________________
| Euclid: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Euclid: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Euclid: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Damascus          Sword for Cless (Slice 350, Stab 315)     22,700 |
| Glaive            Spear for Cless (Slice 210, Stab 424)     22,500 |
| Composite Bow     Bow for Chester (Attack 500, Acy 10)       3,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________
| Euclid: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                           ==============
                           -  VENEZZIA  -
                           ==============
 ________________________
| Venezzia: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 __________________________
| Venezzia: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Seafood           Food Item (Food Value 300)                    60 |
| Seaweed           Food Item (Food Value 2)                   1,580 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Venezzia: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Damascus          Sword for Cless (Slice 350, Stab 315)     22,700 |
| Glaive            Spear for Cless (Slice 210, Stab 424)     22,500 |
| Sinclair          Sword for Cless (Slice 424, Stab 220)     23,700 |
| Hard Cleaver      Axe for Cless (Slice 500, Stab 100)       32,000 |
| Composite Bow     Bow for Chester (Attack 500, Acy 10)       3,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Venezzia: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Mithril Plate     Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 28)      50,000 |
| Mithril Gloves    Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 10)     10,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Festive Ribbon    Helmet for Arche (Def 18)                  7,500 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
| Ribbon            Helmet for Arche (Def 2)                      10 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                       ======================
                       -  MORRISON'S HOUSE  -
                       ======================
 _________________________________
| Morrison's House: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Sabre             Sword for Cless (Slice 8, Stab 5)            200 |
| Rapier            Sword for Cless (Slice 2, Stab 9)            180 |
| Longbow           Bow for Chester (Attack 20, Acy 10)          200 |
| Chain Mail        Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 4)          900 |
| Leather Gloves    Gloves for Cless (Def 1)                     150 |
| Round Shield      Shield for Cless (Run 40)                    300 |
| Rod               Rod for Mint (Attack 2, Acy 10)               10 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                          ===============
                          -  ALVANISTA  -
                          ===============
 ___________________________
| Alvanista: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________
| Alvanista: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Alvanista: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
| Gorgon Amulet     Accessory (prevents petrification)        46,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ________________________
| Alvanista: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Polearm           Spear for Cless (Slice 850, Stab 150)     44,600 |
| Destroyer         Sword for Cless (Slice 630, Stab 290)     60,000 |
| Double Bow        Bow for Chester (Attack 620, Acy 10)       7,000 |
| Holy Rod          Rod for Mint (Attack 180,Acy 10)           6,000 |  
| ?Weapon           Transforms into a Holy Sword for Cless    50,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _______________________
| Alvanista: Armor Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Mithril Plate     Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 28)      50,000 |
| Mithril Gloves    Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 10)     10,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Festive Ribbon    Helmet for Arche (Def 18)                  7,500 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
| Ribbon            Helmet for Arche (Def 2)                      10 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________________________________________
| Store at the Moria Gallery - Ninth Level: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Seafood           Food Item (Food Value 300)                    60 |
| Veggies           Food Item (Food Value 220)                   340 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                        ===================
                        -  ELVEN VILLAGE  -
                        ===================
 _______________________________
| Elven Village: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Elven Village: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________________
| Elven Village: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Elven Mantle      Accessory (Run +10%, Def +12)              9,560 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Witch Broom       Broom for Arche (Attack 500, Acy 10)       1,980 |
| Dark Robe         Armor for Arche (Def 50)                  10,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                        ===================
                        -  NINJA VILLAGE  -
                        ===================
 ______________________________
| Ninja Village: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Naginata          Spear for Cless (Slice 600, Stab 900)    180,000 |
| Tuna              Food Item (Food Value 3,000)               2,100 |
| Japanese Apple    Food Item (Food Value 1,000)                 600 |
| Butter            Food Item (Food Value 2,000)                 900 |
| Miso              Food Item (Food Value 1,000)              80,000 |
| Pudding           Food Item (Food Value 60)                 10,030 |
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                        ===================
                        -  OLIVE VILLAGE  -
                        ===================
 _______________________________
| Olive Village: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Olive Village: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _____________________________
| Olive Village: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________________
| Olive Village: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Corsesque         Spear for Cless (Slice 50,Stab 156)        2,400 |
| Halberd           Spear for Cless (Slice 105, Stab 105)      4,000 |
| Bardish           Axe for Cless (Slice 115, Stab 15)         2,980 |
| Ruby Rod          Rod for Mint (Attack 30, Acy 10)           1,240 |
| Breast Plate      Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 13)       3,600 |
| Armet Helm        Helmet for Cless (Def 5)                   1,320 |
| Gauntlet          Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 4)       1,200 |
| Silver Cloak      Armor for Mint, Klarth and Arche (Def 12)  2,500 |
| Panama Hat        Helmet for Mint and Klarth (Def 5)         1,420 |
| Blue Ribbon       Helmet for Arche (Def 5)                     840 |
| ?Weapon           Transforms into a Flaming Sword          100,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯


                       =====================
                       -  AEGIS' WORKSHOP  -
                       =====================
 ________________________
| Aegis' Workshop: Sammy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Rare Plate        Armor for male characters (Def 38)        82,000 |
| Rare Shield       Shield for Cless (Run 100)                48,500 |
| Rare Helm         Helmet for Cless (Def 20)                 31,000 |
| Rare Gauntlet     Gauntlet for Cless and Chester (Def 15)   59,400 |
| Crescent Bow      Bow for Chester (Attack 1320, Acy 10)     74,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ______________________
| Aegis' Workshop: Ten \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Combo Command     Accessory for Cless only               5,000,000 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
NOTE:  You can't have more than one Combo Command at the same time.
       That means that once you buy it, you can't buy another one
       until you sell the last one.



                          ================
                          -  FREEZEKILL  -
                          ================
 ______________________
| Freezekill: Pharmacy \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________________
| Freezekill: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 __________________________
| Freezekill: Supply Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Thief's Mantle    Accessory (increases Run by 5%)            2,000 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
| Holy Rune         Accessory (increases MAX HP by 5%)        10,000 |
| Battle Rune       Accessory (increases Attack by 10%)        7,200 |
| Mystical Rune     Accessory (halves spell-casting time)     65,800 |
| Silver Cape       Accessory (may annul fire attacks)         3,300 |
| Pick-axe          Used to break certain rocks                  150 |
| Rune Bottle       Used to transform certain items            3,500 |
| Poison Amulet     Accessory (prevents poisoning)             6,200 |
| Body Amulet       Accessory (prevents paralyzation)         26,200 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 _________________________
| Freezekill: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Laser Blade       Sword for Cless (Slice 850, Stab 650)    200,010 |
| Destroyer         Sword for Cless (Slice 630, Stab 290)     60,000 |
| Crescent Bow      Bow for Chester (Attack 1320, Acy 10)     74,000 |
| Holy Rod          Rod for Mint (Attack 180,Acy 10)           6,000 |  
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Mithril Plate     Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 28)      50,000 |
| Mithril Gloves    Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 10)     10,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Festive Ribbon    Helmet for Arche (Def 18)                  7,500 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
| Ribbon            Helmet for Arche (Def 2)                      10 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯



                             =========
                             -  ARY  -
                             =========
 _____________________
| Ary: Grocery Market \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| 
| Bread             Food Item (Food Value 10)                      5 |
| Creamy Cheese     Food Item (Food Value 20)                     10 |
| Sirloin Steak     Food Item (Food Value 80)                     40 |
| Apple             Food Item (Food Value 60)                      1 |
| Steak             Food Item (Food Value 260)                   180 |
| Twinkie           Food Item (Food Value 150)                   100 |
| Mackerel          Food Item (Food Value 2,000)               3,400 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ____________________
| Ary: Variety Store \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Apple Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP              60 |
| Orange Gummy      Restores 30% of a character's MP             200 |
| Mixed Gummy       Restores 30% of a character's HP & MP      2,000 |
| Remedy Bottle     Restores all status ailments                 105 |
| Life Bottle       Revives a slain ally                         300 |
| Flare Bottle      Temporarily increases attack by 30%          150 |
| Medicine Bottle   Prevents and cures poisoning                  60 |
| Leather Mantle    Accessory (useless by itself)                100 |
| Iron Boots        Accessory (halves your speed)              1,010 |
| Spy Lens          Shows an enemy's HP, TP and weakness          10 |
| Rabbit's Foot     Accessory (increases Luck by 10%)            200 |
| Talisman          Accessory (increases Defense by 5%)        2,000 |
| Holy Bottle       Diminishes random encounter rate              80 |
| Dark Bottle       Augments random encounter rate                82 |
| White Mist        Accessory (escape battles 30% faster)      5,100 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 __________________
| Ary: Weapon Shop \
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\
|    I t e m        S h o r t   D e s c r i p t i o n      P r i c e |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| Destroyer         Sword for Cless (Slice 630, Stab 290)     60,000 |
| ?Weapon           Transforms into an Ice Coffin sword      100,000 |
| ?Weapon           Transforms into a Longsword for Cless        150 |
| ?Bow              Transforms into a Wave Spread bow        100,000 |
| ?Bow              Transforms into a Shortbow for Chester        50 |
| Mithril Mesh      Armor for anyone (Def 18)                 30,000 |
| Mithril Plate     Armor for Cless and Chester (Def 28)      50,000 |
| Mithril Gloves    Gloves for Cless and Chester (Def 10)     10,000 |
| Knight Helm       Helmet for Cless (Def 10)                  5,000 |
| Festive Ribbon    Helmet for Arche (Def 18)                  7,500 |
| Holy Cloak        Armor for Mint and Klarth (Def 25)        56,000 |
| Jet Boots         Accessory (allows sprinting)                 210 |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
IV.-                        MONSTERS LIST
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
IV.1- List of Monsters per Location
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

NOTE:  Bosses and enemies that only appear in special battles are
      denoted by a '¤'.


                            ===========
                            - PRESENT -
                            ===========

 Euclid Continent:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Bugbear, Bee, Owl, Wolf
               Spirit Forest - Bugbear, Bee, Owl, ¤Boar, ¤Baby Boar
             Cave of Spirits - Bugbear, Bee, Wolf, Falcon
               Mountain Pass - Bugbear, Bee
                      Sewers - Bugbear, Leech, Slime, ¤Slug, ¤Devil
              Mausoleum Cave - Bugbear, Slime, Slug, ¤Skeleton, ¤Ghoul
                   Mausoleum - Skeleton, Ghoul, Zombie, ¤Golem, Falcon



                              ========
                              - PAST -
                              ========

 Euclid Continent:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Bugbear, Boggle, Hornet, Falcon,
                               Lone Wolf
               Spirit Forest - Bugbear, Bee, Owl
             Cave of Spirits - Bugbear, Bee, Falcon, Clay Idol, ¤Gnome
               Mountain Pass - Bugbear, Bee, Owl

 Venezia Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Bugbear, Boggle, Lone Wolf, Falcon,
                               Slug, Hornet
                 Long Valley - Harpy, Sylph, Ghast, Hell Lord
             Demitel's Manor - Harpy, ¤Oak Root, Bone, ¤Golem,
                               ¤Lilite, ¤Demitel
            Glaciated Cavern - Red Slug, Nymph, Calamari, ¤Undine
           Ship to Alvanista - ¤Meia
               Abyss of Thor - 3000R, 4400R, Evil Vine, ¤2SH,
                               ¤Dhaos (2)

 Alvanista Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Bugbear, Boggle, Osprey
            Alvanista Castle - ¤Alice, ¤Jahmir
               Moria Gallery - B 1-2: Bat, Midget
                               B 3-4: Bat, Doom Toad, Gargoyle,
                                      Vamp Bat
                               B 5-6: Huge Fly, Ogre, Bat, Doom Toad
                               B 7: Aza, Gargoyle, Huge Fly, Ogre
                               B 8-9: Red Slug, Nymph, Calamari
                               B 10: ¤Maxwell


 Ymir Forest Area:
 ¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Giant, Toad, Osprey, Boggle
                 Ymir Forest - Snake Man, Lily, Oak Root
             Treant's Forest - Snake Man, Lily, Oak Root, Drake

               
 Freland:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Fire Bug, Harpy, Agumi, Deela, Basilisk
               Molten Cavern - Ogre, Aza, ¤Ifrit


 Midgard Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Lily, Oak Root, Giant, Hornet, Brigand,
                               Coyote, Agumi
           Tower of 12 Stars - Mud Golem, Dark Mage, Corpse, Brigand
             Valhalla Plains - Old Oak, Chimera, Agumi, ¤Drake,
                               ¤Ishrantu
               Aerial Battle - Vultura, Charon, Demon, ¤Ishrantu
          Northern World Map - Coyote, Agumi, Owl, Old Oak, Chimera 
             Dhaos' Fortress - Draygen, Druid, Charon, Vine, Iron Man,
                               Adept, Dullahan, ¤Evil Lord, ¤Dhaos(1)


                             ==========
                             - FUTURE -
                             ==========

 Euclid Continent:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Mole Man, Volt Fly, Eagle, Dark Vine,
                               Ooze
               Spirit Forest - G. Wasp, Boar, Baby Boar
             Cave of Spirits - Karona, Doom Gaze, Frog Moss, Fiend,
                               Keese
               Mountain Pass - Ooze, Dino Bug, G. Wasp, Eagle,
                               Mole Man
                 Volt's Cave - Arcane, Skull, Bone Bow, Volt Fly,
                               Dino Bug, ¤Aruroun, ¤Volt
           Euclid's Coliseum - Bugbear, Krakken, Mandrake, Dark Vine,
                               Draygen, Oak Root, Fe. Golem, Gorgon,
                               ¤Wyvern, Evil Weed, Komodo, Bear Man,
                               Ukdala, Big Foot, Fast Star, Blue Soup,
                               Solomond, Kemazotz, Mimm, ¤Dozo, ¤Okiyo

 Venezia Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Mole Man, Volt Fly, Eagle, Dark Vine,
                               Ooze
                 Long Valley - Ghast, Vultura
             Demitel's Manor - Harpy, Spectre, Fiend, Doom Gaze, Lich
            Glaciated Cavern - Squid, Krakken, Karona
               Abyss of Thor - Evil Vine, Krakken, 3SH, 10000R, 4400R


 Alvanista Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Grim Rock, Foot, Troll, Bleeb, Jelly
                 Ymir Forest - Drake, Mandrake, Branch
             Treant's Forest - Asashim, Branch, Heretic, Priest,
                               ¤Seraphim, ¤Origin
               Moria Gallery - B 1-2: Bat, Midget
                               B 3-4: Bat, Doom Toad, Gargoyle,
                                      Vamp Bat
                               B 5-6: Huge Fly, Ogre, Bat, Doom Toad
                               B 7: Aza, Gargoyle, Huge Fly, Ogre
                               B 8-9: Red Slug, Nymph, Calamari
                               B 11-20: Sokuram, Ishisu, Ice Child,
                                        Big Foot, Manticor, Beast Man,
                                        Hell Lord, Yuinaru, Tusk Boar,
                                        Wild Wolf, Banshee, D. Flower,
                                        Mimm, Ahlakola, Urchin,
                                        ¤Wyvern

 Freezekill Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Ekim, Eagle, Branch, Sendam, Krakken,
                               Warrior, Priest
             Fenrir's Cavern - Sendam, Druid, Kunoichi, Ekim,
                               Karticar, ¤Fang Wolf


 Ary Area:
 ¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Eagle, D. Flower, Ninja
               Final Dungeon - ¤Dark Eye, Seraphim, Komodo, Destelar,
                               Asassin, Roam Eye, Cardinal, Hanzo,
                               Fe. Golem, Gorgon, ¤Seal Eye, ¤Dhaos,
                               ¤Neo Dhaos, ¤Dhaos Arm


 Freland:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Dark Wing, Basilisk, Clyde, Neo Clyde
               Molten Cavern - Djinn, Skeleton, Aza
                Odin's Tower - D. Sword, Cerberus, Kary, Druid,
                               Yochole, Djinn, ¤Flambelk

 Midgard Area:
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯
                   World Map - Lily, Oak Root, Giant Brigand, Coyote,
                               Agumi, Hornet
           Tower of 12 Stars - Brigand, Corpse, Dark Mage, Mud Golem




¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
IV.2- List of Enemies
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-



1 0 0 0 0 R
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor (Future only)
        HP   10,000           Weak:   Thunder
        TP       50
       EXP       10          Items:   ---
      GALD      ---


2 S H
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯</pre><pre id="faqspan-7">
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy only appears as a boss.
        HP   18,600           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   ---
      GALD      ---


3 0 0 0 R
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor (Past only)
        HP    3,000           Weak:   Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    1,800          Items:   ---
      GALD      ---


3 S H
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor (Future only)
        HP   15,600           Weak:   Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   ---
      GALD      ---


4 4 0 0 R
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor
        HP    4,400           Weak:   Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    2,000          Items:   ---
      GALD      ---


A d e p t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
        HP    3,600           Weak:   Light
        TP      150
       EXP    1,300          Items:   ---
      GALD      680


A g u m i
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map
              Midgard Area - Valhalla Plains (Past only)
        HP      860           Weak:   Earth, Air
        TP        2
       EXP      230          Items:   Sirloin Steak
      GALD       61


A h l a k o l a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
        HP   22,150           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP   14,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,200


A l i c e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Alvanista Castle (Past only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to Jahmir and two Alices.
        HP    2,500           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    3,300          Items:   Verbena
      GALD   10,528


A r c a n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
    Spells:   Ice Wall, Ray
        HP    2,420           Weak:   ---
        TP      135
       EXP    1,630          Items:   Resist Ring, Basilisk Scale
      GALD    1,600


A r u r o u n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
  Comments:   This enemy only appears in the boss fight against Volt,
              hence the amount of EXP and GALD it gives by itself
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to Volt plus 3 Arurouns.
        HP    2,200           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   23,000          Items:   Protect Ring
      GALD   32,767


A s a s h i m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemies give a total of 32,767 EXP points when in
              groups of four.
        HP    5,580           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    4,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,000


A s a s s i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
        HP    8,500           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    8,000          Items:   Twinkie, Battle Rune
      GALD    5,000


A z a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Molten Cavern
              Moria Gallery - Floor 7
    Spells:   Fireball, Eruption, Tractor Beam
        HP    1,200           Weak:   Water
        TP       55
       EXP      150          Items:   Heavy Stone
      GALD      100


B a b y   B o a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Spirit Forest (Present and Future)
  Comments:   You meet this enemy as a boss in the Present.
        HP       30           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        2          Items:   Veal
      GALD        1


B a n s h e e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
        HP   20,000           Weak:   Light, Earth
        TP      150
       EXP   10,000          Items:   ?Bow [Sand Spread]
      GALD    2,000


B a s i l i s k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map
        HP    4,850           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    2,150          Items:   Basilisk Scale
      GALD      520


B a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 1 to 6
        HP      420           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        0
       EXP      100          Items:   ---
      GALD       71


B e a r   M a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 2nd, 4th and 7th to 9th rounds
        HP   24,160           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        2
       EXP    8,230          Items:   ---
      GALD    3,150


B e a s t   M a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to a Manticor and a Beast Man together and
              a Beast Man with 3 Tusk Boars.
        HP   20,700           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP   34,000-65,535   Items:   ?Bow [Shortbow]
      GALD   11,270-12,020            ?Bow [Berserker Bow]


B e e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Almost everywhere! (Present and Past)
        HP       10           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        3          Items:   Apple Gummy
      GALD        2


B i g   F o o t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 3rd, 7th, 8th and 9th rounds
              Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
        HP   36,000           Weak:   Fire
        TP      100
       EXP   20,000          Items:   Ivory Tusk
      GALD   12,000


B l e e b
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    3,120           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    1,200          Items:   Remedy Bottle
      GALD    1,200


B l u e   S o u p
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 5th and 7th rounds
        HP   33,250           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    4,500


B o a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Spirit Forest (Present and Future)
  Comments:   You meet this enemy as a boss in the Present.
        HP      200           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       20          Items:   ---
      GALD       60


B o g g l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      160           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        2
       EXP       30          Items:   Spy Lens
      GALD      150


B o n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Past only)
        HP      450           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      120          Items:   ---
      GALD      212


B o n e   B o w
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
        HP    3,150           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    1,230          Items:   ?Bow [Shortbow]
      GALD    1,200


B r a n c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Future only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
              Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP   16,451           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,000


B r i g a n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Overworld Map
              Midgard Area - Tower of Twelve Stars
        HP    1,800           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      300          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD      200                   ?Weapon [Slayer Sword]


B u g b e a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Everywhere! (Present and Past only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Euclid Coliseum - 1st, 2nd and 4th rounds
        HP       70           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP        5          Items:   Creamy Cheese
      GALD        4


C a l a m a r i
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Past only)
              Moria Gallery - Floors 8 and 9
        HP    2,243           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP      350          Items:   Seafood
      GALD      200


C a r d i n a l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Hammer Head, Barrier, Resurrection
        HP    4,400           Weak:   Thunder
        TP      350
       EXP    4,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,000


C e r b e r u s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
        HP    6,500           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    2,750          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,200


C h a r o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Aerial Battle (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
    Spells:   Thunder Blade
        HP    2,000           Weak:   ---
        TP       60
       EXP    1,000          Items:   Mixed Gummy
      GALD      400


C h i m e r a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Valhalla Plains (Past only)
        HP    2,250           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,350          Items:   ---
      GALD      200


C l a y   I d o l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Past only)
  Comments:   These guys have an extremely high defense. Cless won't
              be able to hurt them (unless you have an absurdly high
              level at that point). The one way to kill the Clay Idols
              is to cast Tractor Beam (I still recommend avoiding
              these guys, though).
        HP        1           Weak:   ---
        TP        1
       EXP        1          Items:   ---
      GALD        1


C l y d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map
        HP    7,550           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    4,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    1,225


C o r p s e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Tower of Twelve Stars
        HP    1,550           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP      280          Items:   Rune Bottle
      GALD      340


C o y o t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Overworld Map
        HP    1,000           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      320          Items:   Boar Roast
      GALD       51


D .   F l o w e r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ary Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy uses a skill called 'Death Scream', which may
              kill your characters instantly.
        HP    9,200           Weak:   Fire
        TP      100
       EXP    3,250          Items:   Veggies
      GALD    2,800


D .   S w o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
        HP   12,280           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    3,200          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,020


D a r k   E y e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Tidal Wave, Resurrection
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   56,600           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   24,000          Items:   Gorgon Amulet
      GALD    9,800


D a r k   M a g e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Tower of Twelve Stars
    Spells:   Grave, Tractor Beam
        HP    1,100           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP      280          Items:   Resist Ring, Heavy Rock
      GALD      234


D a r k   V i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Euclid Coliseum - 1st, 3rd and 5th Rounds
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    3,250           Weak:   Fire
        TP       20
       EXP    2,000          Items:   Spy Lens, Orange Gummy
      GALD      500


D a r k   W i n g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map
        HP    2,520           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    1,500          Items:   Spy Lens
      GALD    1,200


D e e l a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      600           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP      150          Items:   ---
      GALD        5


D e m i t e l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    2,700           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    1,512          Items:   ?Book [Yellow Kings]
      GALD    5,600


D e m o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Aerial Battle (Past only)
        HP    1,150           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    1,030          Items:   Life Bottle
      GALD    1,000


D e s t e l a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
        HP    9,950           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    4,000          Items:   Life Bottle
      GALD    2,800


D e v i l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Sewers (Present only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP      250           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       60          Items:   ---
      GALD      500


D i n o   B u g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
        HP      950           Weak:   ---
        TP       50
       EXP       10          Items:   Holy Bottle, Dark Bottle
      GALD      620


D j i n n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Molten Cavern (Future only)
              Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
    Spells:   Explode
        HP   11,200           Weak:   Water
        TP       40
       EXP    2,550          Items:   ?Bow [Shortbow]
      GALD    1,900                   ?Bow [Flare Spread]


D h a o s   ( 1 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
    Spells:   God Breath, Fire Storm, Thunder Blade
  Comments:   These are the stats of Dhaos when you first fight him.
              He only appears as a boss, of course.
        HP   49,900           Weak:   Thunder, Light
        TP    1,000
       EXP    9,000          Items:   Jade Ring
      GALD    9,000


D h a o s   ( 2 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
    Spells:   God Breath, Fire Storm, Thunder Blade, Explode
  Comments:   These are the stats of Dhaos when you fight him the
              second time (after your return from the Past). He only
              appears as a boss, of course.
        HP   16,250/65,000    Weak:  ---
        TP    1,000
       EXP   25,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   25,000


D h a o s   ( 3 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   God Breath, Fire Storm, Thunder Blade, Explode
  Comments:   These are the stats of Dhaos when you fight him the
              third time. He only appears as a boss, of course.
        HP   56,000           Weak:   ---
        TP    1,000
       EXP   50,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   32,000


D h a o s   A r m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
  Comments:   These are the stats of Dhaos when you fight him the
              fourth (and final) time. The individual EXP and GALD
              ratings for this boss cannot be calculated. The figures
              detailed here correspond to Neo Dhaos and Dhaos Arm.
        HP   40,765           Weak:   ---
        TP    1,765
       EXP   30,765          Items:   ---
      GALD   30,765


D o o m   G a z e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy's attacks may induce poison or paralysis. Its
              'Doom Gaze' attack can kill you automatically if you are
              within range.
        HP   42,500           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP   20,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    6,800


D o o m   T o a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 3 to 6
        HP      820           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      110          Items:   ---
      GALD      100


D o z o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - First time you finish the coliseum
                               after visiting the Ninja Village.
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss. Since Dozo only appears
              with Okiyo, his individual EXP and GALD cannot be
              calculated. The figures included here correspond to Dozo
              and Okiyo together.
        HP   28,500           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP   16,500          Items:   Sake, Painting
      GALD   11,000


D r a k e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Valhalla Plains (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Future only)
        HP    1,500           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP      600          Items:   ---
      GALD      201


D r a y g e n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
              Euclid Coliseum - 1st, 4th and 6th Rounds
        HP    2,000           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        5
       EXP    1,200          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD      600                   ?Weapon [Moon Falux]


D r u i d   ( 1 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
        HP    3,300           Weak:   ---
        TP       80
       EXP    1,000          Items:   ---
      GALD      300


D r u i d   ( 2 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern (Future only)
              Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
        HP    8,300           Weak:   Water, Fire
        TP       60
       EXP    2,800          Items:   Apple Gummy
      GALD    1,401


D u l l a h a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
        HP    3,550           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,660          Items:   ---
      GALD      400


E a g l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Ary Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    1,800           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    1,200          Items:   Chicken
      GALD      400


E k i m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Overworld Map
              Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern
    Spells:   God Breath
        HP    8,000           Weak:   Fire
        TP      400
       EXP    3,200          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD    1,650                   ?Weapon [Arc Wind]


E v i l   L o r d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
              Midgard Area - White Forest (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy only appears as a boss.
        HP   10,500           Weak:   Light, Fire
        TP       60
       EXP    8,000          Items:   Rune Bottle
      GALD    8,000


E v i l   V i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor
        HP    2,250           Weak:   ---
        TP        2
       EXP    2,000          Items:   Mixed Gummy
      GALD       10


E v i l   W e e d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 2nd, 4th, 8th and 9th rounds
        HP   19,200           Weak:   Fire
        TP      100
       EXP    7,250          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,800


F a l c o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Present and Past)
              Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP       80           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       25          Items:   Chicken
      GALD       37


F a n g   W o l f
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   30,000           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP   12,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,000


F a s t   S t a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 4th and 7th rounds
        HP   23,150           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    8,230          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,200


F e .   G o l e m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 1st to 6th, 8th and 9th rounds
              Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
        HP   20,250           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    9,000          Items:   Heavy Stone
      GALD   10,000


F i e n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Future only)
        HP    5,150           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,230          Items:   ---
      GALD    1,200


F i r e   B u g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      900           Weak:   Water
        TP       20
       EXP      225          Items:   Flare Bottle
      GALD      141


F l a m b e l k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
    Spells:   Indignation, Explode
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   45,700           Weak:   ---
        TP      300
       EXP   30,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   19,800


F o o t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    3,920           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    1,200          Items:   Life Bottle, Holy Bottle
      GALD       50


F r o g   M o s s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Future only)
        HP    6,520           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,600          Items:   ---
      GALD      521


G .   W a s p
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Spirit Forest (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Future only)
        HP      884           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    1,200          Items:   ---
      GALD      223


G a r g o y l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 3, 4 and 7
        HP    1,250           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      180          Items:   ---
      GALD       81


G h a s t   ( 1 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Past only)
        HP      260           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       85          Items:   Medicine Bottle
      GALD      106


G h a s t   ( 2 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Future only)
        HP    3,050           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,000          Items:   Dark Bottle
      GALD      720


G h o u l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mausoleum Cave (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
        HP      110           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       15          Items:   Remedy Bottle
      GALD       22


G i a n t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map
        HP    1,050           Weak:   Fire
        TP        2
       EXP      150          Items:   ---
      GALD      161


G n o m e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    3,400           Weak:   ---
        TP      150
       EXP    9,200          Items:   ?Book [Porno Magazine]
      GALD   13,003


G o l e m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
              Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Past only)
        HP      280           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      201          Items:   Holy Bottle
      GALD      410


G o r g o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 1st to 3rd and 5th to 7th Rounds
              Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
        HP   21,850           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   Basilisk Scale
      GALD    6,000


G r i m   R o c k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    2,555           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      900          Items:   ?Book [Porno Magazine]
      GALD    2,900                   Holy Bottle


H a n z o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
        HP   17,500           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    8,000


H a r p y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Past only)
              Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Past and Future)
              Freland - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      200           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP       10
       EXP       66          Items:   Apple Gummy
      GALD      155


H e l l   L o r d   ( 1 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Past only)
  Comments:   RUN! You meet this enemy randomly in the lower part of
              the caves at Long Valley. This guy is almost impossible
              to defeat at that point, since Cless' attacks won't hurt
              him (except for Psion Bolt). By the way, The EXP and
              GALD it gives suck.
        HP    4,700           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       12          Items:   ---
      GALD        6


H e l l   L o r d   ( 2 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to a Hell Lord and 2 Yuinarus together (which
              is the only way you will ever meet them anyway).
        HP   24,700           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP   34,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,220


H e r e t i c
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
    Spells:   Grave, Explode
        HP    5,100           Weak:   ---
        TP       40
       EXP    5,520          Items:   ---
      GALD    3,200


H o r n e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map
        HP      120           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP       33          Items:   ---
      GALD       66


H u g e   F l y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 5 to 7
        HP      870           Weak:   Water, Light
        TP       50
       EXP      250          Items:   ---
      GALD      230


I c e   C h i l d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
    Spells:   Tidal Wave
        HP   20,000           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   12,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,000


I f r i t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Molten Cavern (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    5,500           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    4,000          Items:   Flame Mantle
      GALD    8,000


I r o n   M a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
        HP    7,150           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,750          Items:   Iron Boots
      GALD      820


I s h i s u
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
    Spells:   Meteor
        HP   20,000           Weak:   Light
        TP      200
       EXP   30,000          Items:   ?Weapon [Saint's Rapier]
      GALD    8,000


I s h r a n t u
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Valhalla Plains (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Aerial Battle (Past only)
    Spells:   Thunder Blade, Fire Storm
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    5,000           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   12,000          Items:   Poison Amulet
      GALD   15,000


J a h m i r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Alvanista Castle (Past only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this boss
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to Jahmir and two Alices.
        HP    3,400           Weak:   Fire, Air
        TP      100
       EXP    3,300          Items:   Black Onyx
      GALD   10,528


J e l l y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP   10,005           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    8,000          Items:   ---
      GALD    8,000


K a r o n a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Future only)
    Spells:   Fire Wall
        HP    3,650           Weak:   Light
        TP      200
       EXP    2,500          Items:   ---
      GALD    2,020


K a r t i c a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern (Future only)
        HP   13,150           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    4,050          Items:   ---
      GALD    3,600


K a r y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
        HP   13,200           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    4,500          Items:   Salamander's Ring
      GALD    2,600


K e e s e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Future only)
        HP    2,120           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    1,220          Items:   ---
      GALD      601


K e m a z o t z
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 6th, 8th and 9th rounds
  Comments:   This guy looks a lot like Gnome!
        HP   21,000           Weak:   ---
        TP      400
       EXP    6,200          Items:   ---
      GALD    6,020


K o m o d o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 2nd to 9th rounds
              Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
  Comments:   This enemy's attacks may poison you.
        HP   12,500           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    6,000          Items:   Apple Gummy
      GALD    4,080


K r a k k e n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 1st to 6th Rounds
              Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Abyss of Thor (Future only)
              Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP   10,250           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    5,050          Items:   ?Bow [Shortbow]
      GALD    1,200                   ?Bow [Wave Spread]


K u n o i c h i
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern (Future only)
        HP    3,500           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    2,800          Items:   Mackerel
      GALD    1,200


L e e c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Sewers (Present only)
        HP       60           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        6          Items:   ---
      GALD        6


L i c h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Future only)
        HP    7,280           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    4,000          Items:   Mixed Gummy
      GALD    4,200


L i l i t e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Past only)
    Spells:   Storm, Stone Wall, Ice Tornado
        HP      600           Weak:   ---
        TP       20
       EXP      250          Items:   Rune Bottle
      GALD       10


L i l y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map
        HP      820           Weak:   Fire
        TP      100
       EXP      200          Items:   Life Bottle
      GALD      181


L o n e   W o l f
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      280           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       80          Items:   ---
      GALD       92


M a n d r a k e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 1st, 2nd and 3rd Rounds
              Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy can use 'Drain' to make you loose TP quickly.
              Also, it's attacks may cause petrification.
        HP   10,200           Weak:   Fire
        TP      100
       EXP    6,050          Items:   Gorgon Amulet, Body Amulet
      GALD    1,000


M a n t i c o r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to a Manticor and a Beast Man together (which
              is the only way you will ever meet this enemy, anyway).
        HP   32,500           Weak:   Light
        TP      100
       EXP   34,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   11,270


M a x w e l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Tenth Level (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    7,500           Weak:   ---
        TP      400
       EXP   12,000          Items:   Heavy Stone
      GALD   25,005


M e i a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Ship to Alvanista (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    2,400           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP      450          Items:   ?Weapon [Ice Scimitar]
      GALD    4,000


M i d g e t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 1 and 2
        HP      750           Weak:   Fire, Thunder, Light
        TP        0
       EXP       80          Items:   Apple
      GALD       81


M i m m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 7th, 8th and 9th
              Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
    Spells:   Indignation
        HP   32,300           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   21,500          Items:   ---
      GALD    8,500


M o l e   M a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    2,150           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    2,500          Items:   Seafood
      GALD      540


M u d   G o l e m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Tower of Twelve Stars
        HP    2,270           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP      420          Items:   ---
      GALD      405


N e o   C l y d e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Overworld Map
        HP    2,460           Weak:   Water
        TP       10
       EXP    1,620          Items:   Charm Bottle
      GALD      980


N e o   D h a o s
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Meteor Storm, Tidal Wave, Acid Rain
  Comments:   These are the stats of Dhaos when you fight him the
              fourth (and final) time. The individual EXP and GALD
              ratings for this boss cannot be calculated. The figures
              detailed here correspond to Neo Dhaos and Dhaos Arm.
        HP   64,765           Weak:   ---
        TP    3,765
       EXP   30,765          Items:   ---
      GALD   30,765


N i n j a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ary Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    2,000           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP    5,000          Items:   Charm Bottle
      GALD    3,200


N y m p h
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Past only)
              Moria Gallery - Floors 8 and 9
    Spells:   Ice Tornado, Acid Rain
        HP    1,000           Weak:   Fire
        TP       50
       EXP      350          Items:   ---
      GALD      180


O a k   R o o t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor
              Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map
              Euclid Coliseum - 1st, 6th and 7th Rounds
        HP    2,250           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        3
       EXP      200          Items:   Apple, Japanese Apple
      GALD      620


O k i y o
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - First time you finish the coliseum
                               after visiting the Ninja Village.
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss. Since Okiyo only appears
              with Dozo, her individual EXP and GALD cannot be
              calculated. The figures included here correspond to Dozo
              and Okiyo together.
        HP   15,500           Weak:   Light
        TP        0
       EXP   16,500          Items:   Sake, Painting
      GALD   11,000


O l d   O a k
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Valhalla Plains (Past only)
        HP    3,050           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP    1,550          Items:   Apple, Japanese Apple
      GALD      305


O g r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 5 to 7
              Freland - Molten Cavern (Past only)
  Comments:   Its attacks may produce Paralysis
        HP    1,300           Weak:   Water
        TP        2
       EXP      200          Items:   ---
      GALD      251


O o z e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    2,820           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        0
       EXP    2,500          Items:   Flare Bottle, Life Bottle
      GALD      382


O r i g i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
    Spells:   Indignation
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   45,000           Weak:   ---
        TP    1,000
       EXP   40,000          Items:   ?Bow [Soul Stealer]
      GALD    9,000


O s p r e y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      620           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP      180          Items:   ---
      GALD      150


O w l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Spirit Forest (Present and Past)
              Euclid Continent - Mountain Pass (Past only)
              Midgard Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP       50           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        5          Items:   ---
      GALD       16


P r i e s t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
              Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
    Spells:   Acid Rain, Thunder Blade
  Comments:   This enemy's attacks may cause paralysis.
        HP    7,531           Weak:   ---
        TP       60
       EXP    2,500          Items:   Leather Mantle
      GALD    2,800


R e d   S l u g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Past only)
              Moria Gallery - Floors 8 and 9
        HP      650           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP      320          Items:   Remedy Bottle
      GALD       85


R o a m   E y e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Indignation, God Breath, Cure
        HP   30,000           Weak:   Light
        TP      100
       EXP   24,000          Items:   Dedis Emblem, Miracle Gummy
      GALD   12,345


S e a l   E y e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Meteor Storm, Cure
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   62,600           Weak:   ---
        TP       50
       EXP   10,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   10,000


S e n d a m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Freezekill Area - Fenrir's Cavern (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy can absorb your HP & TP.
        HP    8,350           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    2,250          Items:   Mixed Gummy, Apple Gummy
      GALD    3,000


S e r a p h i m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Future only)
              Final Dungeon - Dhaos' Castle (Future only ^_^)
    Spells:   Fire Storm, God Breath
  Comments:   This enemy appears with Origin when you face him.
        HP   12,700           Weak:   ---
        TP      300
       EXP    9,800          Items:   ---
      GALD    4,280


S k e l e t o n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
              Freland - Molten Cave (Future only)
        HP      100           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       12          Items:   Longsword, Apple Gummy
      GALD       50


S k u l l</pre><pre id="faqspan-8">
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
        HP    3,780           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    1,300          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD    1,251                   ?Weapon [Dragon Tooth]


S l i m e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Sewers (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Mausoleum Cave (Present only)
        HP       80           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        9          Items:   Apple Gummy
      GALD       10


S l u g
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Sewers (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Mausoleum Cave (Present only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      120           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       11          Items:   ---
      GALD       33


S n a k e   M a n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Ymir Forest (Past only)
              Ymir Forest Area - Treant's Forest (Past only)
        HP    1,270           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP      220          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD      182                   Holy Bottle


S o k u r a m
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
    Spells:   Explode
        HP   16,400           Weak:   Light
        TP      100
       EXP   32,000          Items:   ?Bow [Shortbow]
      GALD   15,000                   ?Bow [Berserker Bow]


S o l o m o n d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 5th and 7th rounds
  Comments:   This guy looks a lot like Ifrit!
        HP   33,900           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    8,200          Items:   ---
      GALD    9,500


S p e c t r e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Demitel's Manor (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy's attacks may cause paralysis.
        HP    6,250           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    3,000          Items:   Remedy Bottle
      GALD    2,700


S q u i d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Glaciated Cavern (Future only)
        HP    2,550           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP      250          Items:   ---
      GALD      200


S y l p h   ( 1 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Past only)
  Comments:   There are two kind of Sylphs, these being the weakest
              ones. They fly close to the ground and cast only the
              Lightning spell.
        HP      100           Weak:   ---
        TP       20
       EXP       40          Items:   ---
      GALD      184


S y l p h   ( 2 )
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Venezia Area - Long Valley (Past only)
  Comments:   There are two kind of Sylphs, these being the strongest
              ones. They fly high up and are capable of casting both
              the Lightning and Storm spells.
        HP      150           Weak:   ---
        TP       50
       EXP       60          Items:   Rune Bottle
      GALD      120


T o a d
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Ymir Forest Area - Overworld Map (Past only)
        HP      620           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP      120          Items:   ---
      GALD      141


T r o l l
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    5,150           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP    2,000          Items:   Sirloin Steak
      GALD    2,000


T u s k   B o a r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to a Beast Man and 3 Tusk Boars together
              (which is the only way you will ever meet this enemy).
        HP   20,150           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP   65,535          Items:   ---
      GALD   12,020


U k d a l a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - 3rd, 6th, 8th and 9th rounds
        HP   32,250           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP   12,200          Items:   ---
      GALD   12,620


U n d i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Alvanista Area - Glaciated Cavern (Past only)
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP    6,450           Weak:   Fire
        TP      300
       EXP    9,800          Items:   ?Book [Rabionis]
      GALD    8,600


U r c h i n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
  Comments:   There is no way to kill this enemy (at least to my
              knowledge). Touching it results in immediate death, no
              matter your level or equipment. Attack spells do zero
              damage and death spells don't work... My only advice
              here is: RUN!
        HP      765           Weak:   ---
        TP      765
       EXP      N/A          Items:   ---
      GALD      N/A


V a m p   B a t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Floors 3 and 4
        HP      320           Weak:   Fire, Light
        TP        0
       EXP      100          Items:   ---
      GALD       71


V i n e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Dhaos' Fortress (Past only)
        HP    1,400           Weak:   Fire
        TP       10
       EXP      850          Items:   Orange Gummy
      GALD      200


V o l t
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future Only)
  Comments:   Volt only appears in a boss fight together with other
              enemies, hence the amount of EXP and GALD it gives by
              itself cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to Volt plus 3 Arurouns.
        HP   28,000           Weak:   ---
        TP      400
       EXP   23,000          Items:   Jade Ring
      GALD   32,767


V o l t   F l y
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Future only)
              Euclid Continent - Volt's Cave (Future only)
              Venezia Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    2,000           Weak:   ---
        TP       50
       EXP    1,500          Items:   ---
      GALD      320


V u l t u r a
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Midgard Area - Aerial Battle (Past only)
              Venezia Area - Long Valley (Future Only)
        HP    1,800           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP      100
       EXP    1,100          Items:   Chicken
      GALD    1,320


W a r r i o r
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freezekill Area - Overworld Map (Future only)
        HP    9,200           Weak:   Fire
        TP        0
       EXP    3,050          Items:   Holy Bottle, Dark Bottle
      GALD    3,600


W i l d   W o l f
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
        HP   50,000           Weak:   Fire, Thunder
        TP        0
       EXP   12,000          Items:   ?Weapon [Longsword]
      GALD    9,000                   ?Weapon [Demon Hand]


W o l f
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Overworld Map (Present only)
              Euclid Continent - Cave of Spirits (Present only)
        HP      110           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP        6          Items:   Sirloin Steak
      GALD       12


W y v e r n
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Coliseum - Optional fight after every round
              Moria Gallery - Twenty First level
    Spells:   Explode
  Comments:   This enemy is actually a boss.
        HP   41,100           Weak:   ---
        TP      400
       EXP   50,000          Items:   ---
      GALD   10,000


Y o c h o l e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Freland - Odin's Tower (Future only)
  Comments:   This enemy can absorb your HP & TP from afar or paralyze
              you with hits.
        HP    8,550           Weak:   Water
        TP        0
       EXP    3,200          Items:   Spy Lens, Flare Bottle
      GALD    1,500


Y u i n a r u
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Moria Gallery - Lower Levels (Future only)
    Spells:   Hammer
  Comments:   The individual amounts of EXP and GALD for this enemy
              cannot be calculated. The figures presented here
              correspond to a Hell Lord and 2 Yuinarus together (which
              is the only way you will ever meet them anyway).
        HP   14,200           Weak:   ---
        TP      100
       EXP   34,000          Items:   Sage
      GALD    9,220


Z o m b i e
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
      Area:   Euclid Continent - Mausoleum (Present only)
        HP      130           Weak:   ---
        TP        0
       EXP       24          Items:   Medicine Bottle
      GALD       20


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
V.-                          CODES AND CHEATS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


 How could I call this a complete guide for Tales of Phantasia if
didn't had cheats for you people! Specially since there are almost no
cheats out there for this great game.

 All of these cheats were made by me, so please don't distribute them
separated from this file without my authorization. Feel free to send
codes made by yourself or suggestions about codes and you will be
given proper credit.

 To use this codes with Zsnes simply go to the 'Cheat' menu of the
emulator and choose 'Add Code'. Many of the cheats here consist of two
or three codes, to make them work, just input all the codes separately
and write the same description for each, so that you know that they
all have the same purpose.


 By the way, there are no 'o's in the codes, only '0's (zero). Have
that in mind while copying the codes.



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
V.1- Toying with Characters' Level and Status
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 I'll explain something before getting on with the cheats. The codes
work by modifying the number that represents a character's attribute
(strength, agility, etc). The thing is, the game doesn't store the
attributes of each character by their name, it stores them by the
position of the character in the menu screen, like this:

 ___________ ___________ 
|           |           |   The first slot always corresponds to
| Character | Character |  Cless, but the others can be switched from 
|     1     |     2     |  the 'Formation' menu once you get Chester
|___________|___________|  to rejoin your party after the first half
|           |           |  of the game.
| Character | Character |
|     3     |     4     |
|___________|___________|

 So, to use cheats for a certain character, say Mint, look at her
position in the menu and use cheats for that slot. It's pretty easy,
so I won't go into more detail.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 CHARACTER REACHES LEVEL 99 AFTER ONE FIGHT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 These codes modify the total amount of experience points for a
character. When the character gains some experience points, the game
checks if he/she fulfills the requirements for a new level, since the
character has tons of experience points, he/she goes up to level 99
immediately. The only thing that's bad about this code is that the
game will notify you for EVERY level gained, but it's still worth it.


         Character 1:  7E6B1A7F        Character 2:  7E6C1A7F
                       7E6B1B96                      7E6C1B96
                       7E6B1C98                      7E6C1C98

         Character 3:  7E6D1A7F        Character 4:  7E6E1A7F
                       7E6D1B96                      7E6E1B96
                       7E6D1C98                      7E6E1C98


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 INFINITE HP!
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Note that you still can die with these codes on. If an attack takes
9999 HP, you are dead. However, there's only one enemy capable of
doing that, and it's invincible anyway, so...


         Character 1:  7E6AD00F        Character 2:  7E6BD00F
                       7E6AD127                      7E6BD127

         Character 3:  7E6CD00F        Character 4:  7E6DD00F
                       7E6CD127                      7E6DD127


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 INFINITE TP!
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Yep, Very useful. You won't always have 999 TP, but you can't run out
of it. There's not much else to say about this...


         Character 1:  7E6AD6E7        Character 2:  7E6BD6E7
                       7E6AD703                      7E6BD703

         Character 3:  7E6CD6E7        Character 4:  7E6DD6E7
                       7E6CD703                      7E6DD703


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9999 SLASH AND THRUST
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Obviously, this code works for Cless only. When at some points, Cless
is not the first character on the menu (when Mint goes into the
Unicorn Forest, for example), you should turn off this code, just in
case.

 Even though these two codes are awesome, using them will destroy the
fun of fighting, since a few hits can kill even the last boss. My
advice is to use them only if you are plain sick of getting your
behind kicked by a boss or if you are replaying the game to review the
story.


                         9999 Slash:  7E6ADB0F
                                      7E6ADC27

                         9999 Thrust: 7E6ADF0F
                                      7E6AE027


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9999 ATTACK
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Have you ever wondered 'What if Mint kicked ass?'. Well, no more
wondering, for this codes will make her "kick Dhaos' sorry arse so
hard he'll kiss the moons" (sorry about that, I've been playing Chrono
Cross ^_^).

         Character 2:  7E6BDB0F        Character 3:  7E6CDB0F
                       7E6BDC27                      7E6CDC27

                        Character 4:  7E6DDB0F
                                      7E6DDC27


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9999 DEFENSE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Yes! Nothing can hurt you when these babies are on, but again, using
these will make the game just plain boring. As tempting as being a
god sounds, it is really boring...


         Character 1:  7E6AE50F        Character 2:  7E6BE50F
                       7E6AE627                      7E6BE627

         Character 3:  7E6CE50F        Character 4:  7E6DE50F
                       7E6CE627                      7E6DE627


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9999 HIT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 You will NEVER miss a hit with these, but it's boring again...


         Character 1:  7E6AF60F        Character 2:  7E6BF60F
                       7E6AF727                      7E6BF727

         Character 3:  7E6CF60F        Character 4:  7E6DF60F
                       7E6CF727                      7E6DF727


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9999 EVASION
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 And to complete what I like to call the 'God Code Pack', no one will
be able to hit you! However, it's not recommended that you use these.


         Character 1:  7E6AF10F        Character 2:  7E6BF10F
                       7E6AF227                      7E6BF227

         Character 3:  7E6CF10F        Character 4:  7E6DF10F
                       7E6CF227                      7E6DF227


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 SKILL MASTER 2000!
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 These codes will make the game believe you have used Cless' skills a
hundred times (i.e. you mastered them). Have in mind that if you
haven't learned a skill, you won't be able to use it just because you
input the code. You'll have to use one of the Skill Activation Codes
to do that (see section V.3).


         ===============                   ==============
         - Short Range -                   - Long Range -
         ===============                   ==============

      Tiger Teeth:  7E715664          Psion Bolt:      7E715764
      Blade Storm:  7E715A64          Lionheart:       7E715C64
      Dual Kick:    7E716264          Phoenix:         7E716164
      Magma Rift:   7E716464          Soul Edge:       7E716864
      Soul Wave:    7E716564          Lightning Bolt:  7E716364
      Teleport:     7E716664



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
V.2- General Toying
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 NO RANDOM BATTLES!
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 This is my personal favorite; too bad I learned how to make codes
after I had finished the walkthrough. I'll explain how it works: after
every battle, the number of steps you can take before fighting is
decided. For each step you take, the number is reduced by one. When
the number reaches zero, you enter a battle. This code locks that
number in ten (it could have been any other number), hence you NEVER
have to enter a random battle. Now enjoy!

WARNING:  Turning this code off while in a town or a place where there
         aren't random encounters will cause a random battle to take
         place after you walk a few steps. If it is in a town, you'll
         have to fight the boss from Fenrir's Ice Cavern that will
         most likely kill your characters in a few hits. The cool part
         is, that the background will be a ruined castle, which is
         something you can't normally see. Thanks a lot to Tyson
         Anderson for telling me this.


            No Random Fights:   7E143C0A

          Game Genie Version:   CDF7-FE7B



----------------------------------------------------------------------
 9,999,999 GALD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Just the regular lots-of-money cheat. Thanks a lot to Tyson Anderson,
who pointed out that I had forgotten to add this cheat.

                Lots of Gald:   7E14B37F
                                7E14B496
                                7E14B598


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 THE FIGHTS COUNTER MARKS 9,999
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 And what's the use of that you might wonder. Well, in order to get
some things (such as one of Cless' jobs), you need to have fought a
certain amount of times. This solves the problem for those who just
use the 'No Random Battles' code all the time.

                 9999 Fights:   7E143D7F
                                7E143E96
                                7E143F98


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 LOTS OF FOOD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Yep, this code will keep your food sack better than filled, however,
the amount of food is weird and is not as much as I'd like it to be
but... whatever!

                Tons of Food:   7E14867F
                                7E148796
                                7E148898



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
V.3  Skill Activation Codes
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

 All of these codes where created by Jeffrey Tam, who kindly allowed
me to include them here. If you want a code for Tales of Phantasia
that does not appear in this FAQ, you can probably find it in his
guide, be sure to check it out!


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 CLESS' SKILL ACTIVATORS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Even though you can get most of Cless' skills by taking him to level
99 with codes, three of his skills are only acquired at certain story
points. Now enjoy!


            ==========                           ==========
            - Skills -                           - Combos -
            ==========                           ==========

  Tiger Teeth          7E709181        Psion Kick           7E70A481
  Psion Bolt           7E709281        Mecha Blade          7E70A581
  Gale Shield          7E709301        Psion Storm          7E70A681
  Blade Storm          7E709581        Magma Bolt           7E70A781
  Fury Slash           7E709601        Lion Lunge           7E70A881
  Lionheart            7E709781        Lion Teeth           7E70A981
  Firebrand            7E709801        Lion Claws           7E70AA81
  Eir's Love           7E709901        Lion Flare           7E70AB81
  Focus More           7E709A01        Bolt Crash           7E70AC81
  Focus                7E709B01        Thor's Wrath         7E70AD81
  Phoenix              7E709C81        Tempest              7E70AE81
  Dual Kick            7E709D81        Earth's Rage         7E70AF81
  Lightning Bolt       7E709E81        Flare Talon          7E70B081
  Magma Rift           7E709F81        Odin's Wrath         7E70B181
  Soul Wave            7E70A081        Burning Soul         7E70B281
  Teleport             7E70A181        Cinder Hawk          7E70B381
  Soul Edge            7E70A381        Soul Forge           7E70B481
                                       Soul Strike          7E70B581


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 MINT'S MANA ACTIVATORS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 All of Mint's healing spells can actually be gotten by leveling up,
but for the sake of completeness of the guide, I will include these
codes as well...


   First Aid            7E70B601      Recover              7E70BF01
   Deep Mist            7E70B701      Barrier              7E70C001
   Hammer               7E70B801      Dispel               7E70C101
   Heal                 7E70B901      Nurse                7E70C201
   Antidote             7E70BA01      Haste                7E70C301
   Silence              7E70BB01      Delay                7E70C401
   Acid Rain            7E70BC01      Hammer Head          7E70C501
   Cure                 7E70BD01      Resurrect            7E70C601
   Valkyrie             7E70BE01      Raise Dead           7E70C701


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 KLARTH'S SPIRIT ACTIVATORS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 These codes are really useful, since you can't acquire the Spirits by
just leveling up. There's not much more to say about them, they just
plain great!

   Sylphs               7E70D601      Shadow               7E70DC01
   Undine               7E70D701      Aska                 7E70DD01
   Gnome                7E70D801      Volt                 7E70DE01
   Ifrit                7E70D901      Origin               7E70DF01
   Maxwell              7E70DA01      Gremlin              7E70E001
   Luna                 7E70DB01      Chameleon            7E70E101


----------------------------------------------------------------------
 ARCHE'S SPELL ACTIVATORS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

 Just like the codes that activate the Spirits, these codes are really
useful...

   Fireball             7E70F601      Flare Tornado        7E710201
   Lightning            7E70F701      Ray                  7E710301
   Ice Needle           7E70F801      Fire Storm           7E710401
   Grave                7E70F901      God Breath           7E710501
   Eruption             7E70FA01      Distortion           7E710601
   Storm                7E70FB01      Explode              7E710701
   Ice Tornado          7E70FC01      Indignation          7E710801
   Stone Wall           7E70FD01      Tidal Wave           7E710901
   Tractor Beam         7E70FE01      Death Cloud          7E710A01
   Fire Wall            7E70FF01      Meteor Storm         7E710B01
   Thunder Blade        7E710001      Black Hole           7E710C01
   Ice Wall             7E710101      Extinction           7E710D01



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
V.4- Item Modification Codes
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 All of this codes were made and tested by Chris Morgan. He kindly
submitted his codes to be included in this guide and I can't thank him
enough.

 The updated list of the items' PAR values (with the correct names for
the items) is courtesy of Jeffrey Tam.



Note #1: Item ID  - 3 hex digits
                  - first 2 digits goes in ?? of the ITEM ID CODE
                  - third digit goes in the first ?? of the ITEM
                    QUANTITY CODE
    Item Quantity - 1 hex digit
                  - goes in the second ?? of the ITEM QUANTITY CODE

Ex #1)
      ITEM ID is "0B8".  Place 9 of this item in the item slot (1,1).
 
          HINT:  ITEM ID CODE for slot (1,1) is 7E8989 ??, and
                 ITEM QUANTITY CODE for slot (1,1) is 7E8AA9 ??.


      SOLUTION: Place 0B in ITEM ID CODE, and 89 in ITEM QUANTITY CODE

                 7E8969 0B
                 7E8AA9 89

CAUTION:  DO NOT sort the items while ITEM MODIFICATION CODE is
         enabled. Instead, enable the ITEM MOD CODES, reload the game,
         save the game, turn ITEM MOD CODES off, and reload the game
         again.  Now, you can sort the items without causing errors.



                             ============
                             -ITEM SLOTS-
                             ============

      ________________________         ________________________
           ITEM ID CODE                   ITEM QUANTITY CODE
      ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯         ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
        Slot (1,1) - 7E8969 ??           Slot (1,1) - 7E8AA9 ??
        Slot (1,2) - 7E896A ??           Slot (1,2) - 7E8AAA ??
        Slot (2,1) - 7E896B ??           Slot (2,1) - 7E8AAB ??
        Slot (2,2) - 7E896C ??           Slot (2,2) - 7E8AAC ??
        Slot (3,1) - 7E896D ??           Slot (3,1) - 7E8AAD ??
        Slot (3,2) - 7E896E ??           Slot (3,2) - 7E8AAE ??
        Slot (4,1) - 7E896F ??           Slot (4,1) - 7E8AAF ??
        Slot (4,2) - 7E8970 ??           Slot (4,2) - 7E8AB0 ??
        Slot (5,1) - 7E8971 ??           Slot (5,1) - 7E8AB1 ??
        Slot (5,2) - 7E8972 ??           Slot (5,2) - 7E8AB2 ??
        Slot (6,1) - 7E8973 ??           Slot (6,1) - 7E8AB3 ??
        Slot (6,2) - 7E8974 ??           Slot (6,2) - 7E8AB4 ??
        Slot (7,1) - 7E8975 ??           Slot (7,1) - 7E8AB5 ??
        Slot (7,2) - 7E8976 ??           Slot (7,2) - 7E8AB6 ??
        Slot (8,1) - 7E8977 ??           Slot (8,1) - 7E8AB7 ??
        Slot (8,2) - 7E8978 ??           Slot (8,2) - 7E8AB8 ??
        Slot (9,1) - 7E8979 ??           Slot (9,1) - 7E8AB9 ??
        Slot (9,2) - 7E897A ??           Slot (9,2) - 7E8ABA ??
       Slot (10,1) - 7E897B ??          Slot (10,1) - 7E8ABB ??
       Slot (10,2) - 7E897C ??          Slot (10,2) - 7E8ABC ??
       Slot (11,1) - 7E897D ??          Slot (11,1) - 7E8ABD ??
       Slot (11,2) - 7E897E ??          Slot (11,2) - 7E8ABE ??
       Slot (12,1) - 7E897F ??          Slot (12,1) - 7E8ABF ??
       Slot (12,2) - 7E8980 ??          Slot (12,2) - 7E8AC0 ??
       Slot (13,1) - 7E8981 ??          Slot (13,1) - 7E8AC1 ??
       Slot (13,2) - 7E8982 ??          Slot (13,2) - 7E8AC2 ??
       Slot (14,1) - 7E8983 ??          Slot (14,1) - 7E8AC3 ??
       Slot (14,2) - 7E8984 ??          Slot (14,2) - 7E8AC4 ??
       Slot (15,1) - 7E8985 ??          Slot (15,1) - 7E8AC5 ??
       Slot (15,2) - 7E8986 ??          Slot (15,2) - 7E8AC6 ??
       Slot (16,1) - 7E8987 ??          Slot (16,1) - 7E8AC7 ??
       Slot (16,2) - 7E8988 ??          Slot (16,2) - 7E8AC8 ??
       Slot (17,1) - 7E8989 ??          Slot (17,1) - 7E8AC9 ??
       Slot (17,2) - 7E898A ??          Slot (17,2) - 7E8ACA ??
       Slot (18,1) - 7E898B ??          Slot (18,1) - 7E8ACB ??
       Slot (18,2) - 7E898C ??          Slot (18,2) - 7E8ACC ??
       Slot (19,1) - 7E898D ??          Slot (19,1) - 7E8ACD ??
       Slot (19,2) - 7E898E ??          Slot (19,2) - 7E8ACE ??
       Slot (20,1) - 7E898F ??          Slot (20,1) - 7E8ACF ??
       Slot (20,2) - 7E8990 ??          Slot (20,2) - 7E8AD0 ??
       Slot (21,1) - 7E8991 ??          Slot (21,1) - 7E8AD1 ??
       Slot (21,2) - 7E8992 ??          Slot (21,2) - 7E8AD2 ??
       Slot (22,1) - 7E8993 ??          Slot (22,1) - 7E8AD3 ??
       Slot (22,2) - 7E8994 ??          Slot (22,2) - 7E8AD4 ??
       Slot (23,1) - 7E8995 ??          Slot (23,1) - 7E8AD5 ??
       Slot (23,2) - 7E8996 ??          Slot (23,2) - 7E8AD6 ??
       Slot (24,1) - 7E8997 ??          Slot (24,1) - 7E8AD7 ??
       Slot (24,2) - 7E8998 ??          Slot (24,2) - 7E8AD8 ??
       Slot (25,1) - 7E8999 ??          Slot (25,1) - 7E8AD9 ??
       Slot (25,2) - 7E899A ??          Slot (25,2) - 7E8ADA ??
       Slot (26,1) - 7E899B ??          Slot (26,1) - 7E8ADB ??
       Slot (26,2) - 7E899C ??          Slot (26,2) - 7E8ADC ??
       Slot (27,1) - 7E899D ??          Slot (27,1) - 7E8ADD ??
       Slot (27,2) - 7E899E ??          Slot (27,2) - 7E8ADE ??
       Slot (28,1) - 7E899F ??          Slot (28,1) - 7E8ADF ??
       Slot (28,2) - 7E89A0 ??          Slot (28,2) - 7E8AE0 ??
       Slot (29,1) - 7E89A1 ??          Slot (29,1) - 7E8AE1 ??
       Slot (29,2) - 7E89A2 ??          Slot (29,2) - 7E8AE2 ??
       Slot (30,1) - 7E89A3 ??          Slot (30,1) - 7E8AE3 ??
       Slot (30,2) - 7E89A4 ??          Slot (30,2) - 7E8AE4 ??
       Slot (31,1) - 7E89A5 ??          Slot (31,1) - 7E8AE5 ??
       Slot (31,2) - 7E89A6 ??          Slot (31,2) - 7E8AE6 ??
       Slot (32,1) - 7E89A7 ??          Slot (32,1) - 7E8AE7 ??
       Slot (32,2) - 7E89A8 ??          Slot (32,2) - 7E8AE8 ??
       Slot (33,1) - 7E89A9 ??          Slot (33,1) - 7E8AE9 ??
       Slot (33,2) - 7E89AA ??          Slot (33,2) - 7E8AEA ??
       Slot (34,1) - 7E89AB ??          Slot (34,1) - 7E8AEB ??
       Slot (34,2) - 7E89AC ??          Slot (34,2) - 7E8AEC ??
       Slot (35,1) - 7E89AD ??          Slot (35,1) - 7E8AED ??
       Slot (35,2) - 7E89AE ??          Slot (35,2) - 7E8AEE ??
       Slot (36,1) - 7E89AF ??          Slot (36,1) - 7E8AEF ??
       Slot (36,2) - 7E89B0 ??          Slot (36,2) - 7E8AF0 ??
       Slot (37,1) - 7E89B1 ??          Slot (37,1) - 7E8AF1 ??
       Slot (37,2) - 7E89B2 ??          Slot (37,2) - 7E8AF2 ??
       Slot (38,1) - 7E89B3 ??          Slot (38,1) - 7E8AF3 ??
       Slot (38,2) - 7E89B4 ??          Slot (38,2) - 7E8AF4 ??
       Slot (39,1) - 7E89B5 ??          Slot (39,1) - 7E8AF5 ??
       Slot (39,2) - 7E89B6 ??          Slot (39,2) - 7E8AF6 ??
       Slot (40,1) - 7E89B7 ??          Slot (40,1) - 7E8AF7 ??
       Slot (40,2) - 7E89B8 ??          Slot (40,2) - 7E8AF8 ??
       Slot (41,1) - 7E89B9 ??          Slot (41,1) - 7E8AF9 ??
       Slot (41,2) - 7E89BA ??          Slot (41,2) - 7E8AFA ??
       Slot (42,1) - 7E89BB ??          Slot (42,1) - 7E8AFB ??
       Slot (42,2) - 7E89BC ??          Slot (42,2) - 7E8AFC ??
       Slot (43,1) - 7E89BD ??          Slot (43,1) - 7E8AFD ??
       Slot (43,2) - 7E89BE ??          Slot (43,2) - 7E8AFE ??
       Slot (44,1) - 7E89BF ??          Slot (44,1) - 7E8AFF ??
       Slot (44,2) - 7E89C0 ??          Slot (44,2) - 7E8B00 ??
       Slot (45,1) - 7E89C1 ??          Slot (45,1) - 7E8B01 ??
       Slot (45,2) - 7E89C2 ??          Slot (45,2) - 7E8B02 ??
       Slot (46,1) - 7E89C3 ??          Slot (46,1) - 7E8B03 ??
       Slot (46,2) - 7E89C4 ??          Slot (46,2) - 7E8B04 ??
       Slot (47,1) - 7E89C5 ??          Slot (47,1) - 7E8B05 ??
       Slot (47,2) - 7E89C6 ??          Slot (47,2) - 7E8B06 ??
       Slot (48,1) - 7E89C7 ??          Slot (48,1) - 7E8B07 ??
       Slot (48,2) - 7E89C8 ??          Slot (48,2) - 7E8B08 ??
       Slot (49,1) - 7E89C9 ??          Slot (49,1) - 7E8B09 ??
       Slot (49,2) - 7E89CA ??          Slot (49,2) - 7E8B0A ??
       Slot (50,1) - 7E89CB ??          Slot (50,1) - 7E8B0B ??
       Slot (50,2) - 7E89CC ??          Slot (50,2) - 7E8B0C ??
       Slot (51,1) - 7E89CD ??          Slot (51,1) - 7E8B0D ??
       Slot (51,2) - 7E89CE ??          Slot (51,2) - 7E8B0E ??
       Slot (52,1) - 7E89CF ??          Slot (52,1) - 7E8B0F ??
       Slot (52,2) - 7E89D0 ??          Slot (52,2) - 7E8B10 ??
       Slot (53,1) - 7E89D1 ??          Slot (53,1) - 7E8B11 ??
       Slot (53,2) - 7E89D2 ??          Slot (53,2) - 7E8B12 ??
       Slot (54,1) - 7E89D3 ??          Slot (54,1) - 7E8B13 ??
       Slot (54,2) - 7E89D4 ??          Slot (54,2) - 7E8B14 ??
       Slot (55,1) - 7E89D5 ??          Slot (55,1) - 7E8B15 ??
       Slot (55,2) - 7E89D6 ??          Slot (55,2) - 7E8B16 ??
       Slot (56,1) - 7E89D7 ??          Slot (56,1) - 7E8B17 ??
       Slot (56,2) - 7E89D8 ??          Slot (56,2) - 7E8B18 ??
       Slot (57,1) - 7E89D9 ??          Slot (57,1) - 7E8B19 ??
       Slot (57,2) - 7E89DA ??          Slot (57,2) - 7E8B1A ??
       Slot (58,1) - 7E89DB ??          Slot (58,1) - 7E8B1B ??
       Slot (58,2) - 7E89DC ??          Slot (58,2) - 7E8B1C ??
       Slot (59,1) - 7E89DD ??          Slot (59,1) - 7E8B1D ??
       Slot (59,2) - 7E89DE ??          Slot (59,2) - 7E8B1E ??
       Slot (60,1) - 7E89DF ??          Slot (60,1) - 7E8B1F ??
       Slot (60,2) - 7E89E0 ??          Slot (60,2) - 7E8B20 ??
       Slot (61,1) - 7E89E1 ??          Slot (61,1) - 7E8B21 ??
       Slot (61,2) - 7E89E2 ??          Slot (61,2) - 7E8B22 ??
       Slot (62,1) - 7E89E3 ??          Slot (62,1) - 7E8B23 ??
       Slot (62,2) - 7E89E4 ??          Slot (62,2) - 7E8B24 ??
       Slot (63,1) - 7E89E5 ??          Slot (63,1) - 7E8B25 ??
       Slot (63,2) - 7E89E6 ??          Slot (63,2) - 7E8B26 ??
       Slot (64,1) - 7E89E7 ??          Slot (64,1) - 7E8B27 ??
       Slot (64,2) - 7E89E8 ??          Slot (64,2) - 7E8B28 ??
       Slot (65,1) - 7E89E9 ??          Slot (65,1) - 7E8B29 ??
       Slot (65,2) - 7E89EA ??          Slot (65,2) - 7E8B2A ??
       Slot (66,1) - 7E89EB ??          Slot (66,1) - 7E8B2B ??
       Slot (66,2) - 7E89EC ??          Slot (66,2) - 7E8B2C ??
       Slot (67,1) - 7E89ED ??          Slot (67,1) - 7E8B2D ??
       Slot (67,2) - 7E89EE ??          Slot (67,2) - 7E8B2E ??
       Slot (68,1) - 7E89EF ??          Slot (68,1) - 7E8B2F ??
       Slot (68,2) - 7E89F0 ??          Slot (68,2) - 7E8B30 ??
       Slot (69,1) - 7E89F1 ??          Slot (69,1) - 7E8B31 ??
       Slot (69,2) - 7E89F2 ??          Slot (69,2) - 7E8B32 ??
       Slot (70,1) - 7E89F3 ??          Slot (70,1) - 7E8B33 ??
       Slot (70,2) - 7E89F4 ??          Slot (70,2) - 7E8B34 ??
       Slot (71,1) - 7E89F5 ??          Slot (71,1) - 7E8B35 ??
       Slot (71,2) - 7E89F6 ??          Slot (71,2) - 7E8B36 ??
       Slot (72,1) - 7E89F7 ??          Slot (72,1) - 7E8B37 ??
       Slot (72,2) - 7E89F8 ??          Slot (72,2) - 7E8B38 ??
       Slot (73,1) - 7E89F9 ??          Slot (73,1) - 7E8B39 ??
       Slot (73,2) - 7E89FA ??          Slot (73,2) - 7E8B3A ??
       Slot (74,1) - 7E89FB ??          Slot (74,1) - 7E8B3B ??
       Slot (74,2) - 7E89FC ??          Slot (74,2) - 7E8B3C ??
       Slot (75,1) - 7E89FD ??          Slot (75,1) - 7E8B3D ??
       Slot (75,2) - 7E89FE ??          Slot (75,2) - 7E8B3E ??
       Slot (76,1) - 7E89FF ??          Slot (76,1) - 7E8B3F ??
       Slot (76,2) - 7E8A00 ??          Slot (76,2) - 7E8B40 ??
       Slot (77,1) - 7E8A01 ??          Slot (77,1) - 7E8B41 ??
       Slot (77,2) - 7E8A02 ??          Slot (77,2) - 7E8B42 ??
       Slot (78,1) - 7E8A03 ??          Slot (78,1) - 7E8B43 ??
       Slot (78,2) - 7E8A04 ??          Slot (78,2) - 7E8B44 ??
       Slot (79,1) - 7E8A05 ??          Slot (79,1) - 7E8B45 ??
       Slot (79,2) - 7E8A06 ??          Slot (79,2) - 7E8B46 ??
       Slot (80,1) - 7E8A07 ??          Slot (80,1) - 7E8B47 ??
       Slot (80,2) - 7E8A08 ??          Slot (80,2) - 7E8B48 ??
       Slot (81,1) - 7E8A09 ??          Slot (81,1) - 7E8B49 ??
       Slot (81,2) - 7E8A0A ??          Slot (81,2) - 7E8B4A ??
       Slot (82,1) - 7E8A0B ??          Slot (82,1) - 7E8B4B ??
       Slot (82,2) - 7E8A0C ??          Slot (82,2) - 7E8B4C ??
       Slot (83,1) - 7E8A0D ??          Slot (83,1) - 7E8B4D ??
       Slot (83,2) - 7E8A0E ??          Slot (83,2) - 7E8B4E ??
       Slot (84,1) - 7E8A0F ??          Slot (84,1) - 7E8B4F ??
       Slot (84,2) - 7E8A10 ??          Slot (84,2) - 7E8B50 ??
       Slot (85,1) - 7E8A11 ??          Slot (85,1) - 7E8B51 ??
       Slot (85,2) - 7E8A12 ??          Slot (85,2) - 7E8B52 ??
       Slot (86,1) - 7E8A13 ??          Slot (86,1) - 7E8B53 ??
       Slot (86,2) - 7E8A14 ??          Slot (86,2) - 7E8B54 ??
       Slot (87,1) - 7E8A15 ??          Slot (87,1) - 7E8B55 ??
       Slot (87,2) - 7E8A16 ??          Slot (87,2) - 7E8B56 ??
       Slot (88,1) - 7E8A17 ??          Slot (88,1) - 7E8B57 ??
       Slot (88,2) - 7E8A18 ??          Slot (88,2) - 7E8B58 ??
       Slot (89,1) - 7E8A19 ??          Slot (89,1) - 7E8B59 ??
       Slot (89,2) - 7E8A1A ??          Slot (89,2) - 7E8B5A ??
       Slot (90,1) - 7E8A1B ??          Slot (90,1) - 7E8B5B ??
       Slot (90,2) - 7E8A1C ??          Slot (90,2) - 7E8B5C ??
       Slot (91,1) - 7E8A1D ??          Slot (91,1) - 7E8B5D ??
       Slot (91,2) - 7E8A1E ??          Slot (91,2) - 7E8B5E ??
       Slot (92,1) - 7E8A1F ??          Slot (92,1) - 7E8B5F ??
       Slot (92,2) - 7E8A20 ??          Slot (92,2) - 7E8B60 ??
       Slot (93,1) - 7E8A21 ??          Slot (93,1) - 7E8B61 ??
       Slot (93,2) - 7E8A22 ??          Slot (93,2) - 7E8B62 ??
       Slot (94,1) - 7E8A23 ??          Slot (94,1) - 7E8B63 ??
       Slot (94,2) - 7E8A24 ??          Slot (94,2) - 7E8B64 ??
       Slot (95,1) - 7E8A25 ??          Slot (95,1) - 7E8B65 ??
       Slot (95,2) - 7E8A26 ??          Slot (95,2) - 7E8B66 ??
       Slot (96,1) - 7E8A27 ??          Slot (96,1) - 7E8B67 ??
       Slot (96,2) - 7E8A28 ??          Slot (96,2) - 7E8B68 ??
       Slot (97,1) - 7E8A29 ??          Slot (97,1) - 7E8B69 ??
       Slot (97,2) - 7E8A2A ??          Slot (97,2) - 7E8B6A ??
       Slot (98,1) - 7E8A2B ??          Slot (98,1) - 7E8B6B ??
       Slot (98,2) - 7E8A2C ??          Slot (98,2) - 7E8B6C ??
       Slot (99,1) - 7E8A2D ??          Slot (99,1) - 7E8B6D ??
       Slot (99,2) - 7E8A2E ??          Slot (99,2) - 7E8B6E ??
      Slot (100,1) - 7E8A2F ??         Slot (100,1) - 7E8B6F ??
      Slot (100,2) - 7E8A30 ??         Slot (100,2) - 7E8B70 ??
      Slot (101,1) - 7E8A31 ??         Slot (101,1) - 7E8B71 ??
      Slot (101,2) - 7E8A32 ??         Slot (101,2) - 7E8B72 ??
      Slot (102,1) - 7E8A33 ??         Slot (102,1) - 7E8B73 ??
      Slot (102,2) - 7E8A34 ??         Slot (102,2) - 7E8B74 ??
      Slot (103,1) - 7E8A35 ??         Slot (103,1) - 7E8B75 ??
      Slot (103,2) - 7E8A36 ??         Slot (103,2) - 7E8B76 ??
      Slot (104,1) - 7E8A37 ??         Slot (104,1) - 7E8B77 ??
      Slot (104,2) - 7E8A38 ??         Slot (104,2) - 7E8B78 ??
      Slot (105,1) - 7E8A39 ??         Slot (105,1) - 7E8B79 ??
      Slot (105,2) - 7E8A3A ??         Slot (105,2) - 7E8B7A ??
      Slot (106,1) - 7E8A3B ??         Slot (106,1) - 7E8B7B ??
      Slot (106,2) - 7E8A3C ??         Slot (106,2) - 7E8B7C ??
      Slot (107,1) - 7E8A3D ??         Slot (107,1) - 7E8B7D ??
      Slot (107,2) - 7E8A3E ??         Slot (107,2) - 7E8B7E ??
      Slot (108,1) - 7E8A3F ??         Slot (108,1) - 7E8B7F ??
      Slot (108,2) - 7E8A40 ??         Slot (108,2) - 7E8B80 ??
      Slot (109,1) - 7E8A41 ??         Slot (109,1) - 7E8B81 ??
      Slot (109,2) - 7E8A42 ??         Slot (109,2) - 7E8B82 ??
      Slot (110,1) - 7E8A43 ??         Slot (110,1) - 7E8B83 ??
      Slot (110,2) - 7E8A44 ??         Slot (110,2) - 7E8B84 ??
      Slot (111,1) - 7E8A45 ??         Slot (111,1) - 7E8B85 ??
      Slot (111,2) - 7E8A46 ??         Slot (111,2) - 7E8B86 ??
      Slot (112,1) - 7E8A47 ??         Slot (112,1) - 7E8B87 ??
      Slot (112,2) - 7E8A48 ??         Slot (112,2) - 7E8B88 ??
      Slot (113,1) - 7E8A49 ??         Slot (113,1) - 7E8B89 ??
      Slot (113,2) - 7E8A4A ??         Slot (113,2) - 7E8B8A ??
      Slot (114,1) - 7E8A4B ??         Slot (114,1) - 7E8B8B ??
      Slot (114,2) - 7E8A4C ??         Slot (114,2) - 7E8B8C ??
      Slot (115,1) - 7E8A4D ??         Slot (115,1) - 7E8B8D ??
      Slot (115,2) - 7E8A4E ??         Slot (115,2) - 7E8B8E ??
      Slot (116,1) - 7E8A4F ??         Slot (116,1) - 7E8B8F ??
      Slot (116,2) - 7E8A50 ??         Slot (116,2) - 7E8B90 ??
      Slot (117,1) - 7E8A51 ??         Slot (117,1) - 7E8B91 ??
      Slot (117,2) - 7E8A52 ??         Slot (117,2) - 7E8B92 ??
      Slot (118,1) - 7E8A53 ??         Slot (118,1) - 7E8B93 ??
      Slot (118,2) - 7E8A54 ??         Slot (118,2) - 7E8B94 ??
      Slot (119,1) - 7E8A55 ??         Slot (119,1) - 7E8B95 ??
      Slot (119,2) - 7E8A56 ??         Slot (119,2) - 7E8B96 ??
      Slot (120,1) - 7E8A57 ??         Slot (120,1) - 7E8B97 ??
      Slot (120,2) - 7E8A58 ??         Slot (120,2) - 7E8B98 ??
      Slot (121,1) - 7E8A59 ??         Slot (121,1) - 7E8B99 ??
      Slot (121,2) - 7E8A5A ??         Slot (121,2) - 7E8B9A ??
      Slot (122,1) - 7E8A5B ??         Slot (122,1) - 7E8B9B ??
      Slot (122,2) - 7E8A5C ??         Slot (122,2) - 7E8B9C ??
      Slot (123,1) - 7E8A5D ??         Slot (123,1) - 7E8B9D ??
      Slot (123,2) - 7E8A5E ??         Slot (123,2) - 7E8B9E ??
      Slot (124,1) - 7E8A5F ??         Slot (124,1) - 7E8B9F ??
      Slot (124,2) - 7E8A60 ??         Slot (124,2) - 7E8BA0 ??
      Slot (125,1) - 7E8A61 ??         Slot (125,1) - 7E8BA1 ??
      Slot (125,2) - 7E8A62 ??         Slot (125,2) - 7E8BA2 ??
      Slot (126,1) - 7E8A63 ??         Slot (126,1) - 7E8BA3 ??
      Slot (126,2) - 7E8A64 ??         Slot (126,2) - 7E8BA4 ??
      Slot (127,1) - 7E8A65 ??         Slot (127,1) - 7E8BA5 ??
      Slot (127,2) - 7E8A66 ??         Slot (127,2) - 7E8BA6 ??
      Slot (128,1) - 7E8A67 ??         Slot (128,1) - 7E8BA7 ??
      Slot (128,2) - 7E8A68 ??         Slot (128,2) - 7E8BA8 ??
      Slot (129,1) - 7E8A69 ??         Slot (129,1) - 7E8BA9 ??
      Slot (129,2) - 7E8A6A ??         Slot (129,2) - 7E8BAA ??
      Slot (130,1) - 7E8A6B ??         Slot (130,1) - 7E8BAB ??
      Slot (130,2) - 7E8A6C ??         Slot (130,2) - 7E8BAC ??
      Slot (131,1) - 7E8A6D ??         Slot (131,1) - 7E8BAD ??
      Slot (131,2) - 7E8A6E ??         Slot (131,2) - 7E8BAE ??
      Slot (132,1) - 7E8A6F ??         Slot (132,1) - 7E8BAF ??
      Slot (132,2) - 7E8A70 ??         Slot (132,2) - 7E8BB0 ??
      Slot (133,1) - 7E8A71 ??         Slot (133,1) - 7E8BB1 ??
      Slot (133,2) - 7E8A72 ??         Slot (133,2) - 7E8BB2 ??
      Slot (134,1) - 7E8A73 ??         Slot (134,1) - 7E8BB3 ??
      Slot (134,2) - 7E8A74 ??         Slot (134,2) - 7E8BB4 ??
      Slot (135,1) - 7E8A75 ??         Slot (135,1) - 7E8BB5 ??
      Slot (135,2) - 7E8A76 ??         Slot (135,2) - 7E8BB6 ??
      Slot (136,1) - 7E8A77 ??         Slot (136,1) - 7E8BB7 ??
      Slot (136,2) - 7E8A78 ??         Slot (136,2) - 7E8BB8 ??
      Slot (137,1) - 7E8A79 ??         Slot (137,1) - 7E8BB9 ??
      Slot (137,2) - 7E8A7A ??         Slot (137,2) - 7E8BBA ??
      Slot (138,1) - 7E8A7B ??         Slot (138,1) - 7E8BBB ??
      Slot (138,2) - 7E8A7C ??         Slot (138,2) - 7E8BBC ??
      Slot (139,1) - 7E8A7D ??         Slot (139,1) - 7E8BBD ??
      Slot (139,2) - 7E8A7E ??         Slot (139,2) - 7E8BBE ??
      Slot (140,1) - 7E8A7F ??         Slot (140,1) - 7E8BBF ??
      Slot (140,2) - 7E8A80 ??         Slot (140,2) - 7E8BC0 ??
      Slot (141,1) - 7E8A81 ??         Slot (141,1) - 7E8BC1 ??
      Slot (141,2) - 7E8A82 ??         Slot (141,2) - 7E8BC2 ??
      Slot (142,1) - 7E8A83 ??         Slot (142,1) - 7E8BC3 ??
      Slot (142,2) - 7E8A84 ??         Slot (142,2) - 7E8BC4 ??
      Slot (143,1) - 7E8A85 ??         Slot (143,1) - 7E8BC5 ??
      Slot (143,2) - 7E8A86 ??         Slot (143,2) - 7E8BC6 ??
      Slot (144,1) - 7E8A87 ??         Slot (144,1) - 7E8BC7 ??
      Slot (144,2) - 7E8A88 ??         Slot (144,2) - 7E8BC8 ??
      Slot (145,1) - 7E8A89 ??         Slot (145,1) - 7E8BC9 ??
      Slot (145,2) - 7E8A8A ??         Slot (145,2) - 7E8BCA ??
      Slot (146,1) - 7E8A8B ??         Slot (146,1) - 7E8BCB ??
      Slot (146,2) - 7E8A8C ??         Slot (146,2) - 7E8BCC ??
      Slot (147,1) - 7E8A8D ??         Slot (147,1) - 7E8BCD ??
      Slot (147,2) - 7E8A8E ??         Slot (147,2) - 7E8BCE ??
      Slot (148,1) - 7E8A8F ??         Slot (148,1) - 7E8BCF ??
      Slot (148,2) - 7E8A90 ??         Slot (148,2) - 7E8BD0 ??
      Slot (149,1) - 7E8A91 ??         Slot (149,1) - 7E8BD1 ??
      Slot (149,2) - 7E8A92 ??         Slot (149,2) - 7E8BD2 ??
      Slot (150,1) - 7E8A93 ??         Slot (150,1) - 7E8BD3 ??
      Slot (150,2) - 7E8A94 ??         Slot (150,2) - 7E8BD4 ??
      Slot (151,1) - 7E8A95 ??         Slot (151,1) - 7E8BD5 ??
      Slot (151,2) - 7E8A96 ??         Slot (151,2) - 7E8BD6 ??
      Slot (152,1) - 7E8A97 ??         Slot (152,1) - 7E8BD7 ??
      Slot (152,2) - 7E8A98 ??         Slot (152,2) - 7E8BD8 ??
      Slot (153,1) - 7E8A99 ??         Slot (153,1) - 7E8BD9 ??
      Slot (153,2) - 7E8A9A ??         Slot (153,2) - 7E8BDA ??
      Slot (154,1) - 7E8A9B ??         Slot (154,1) - 7E8BDB ??
      Slot (154,2) - 7E8A9C ??         Slot (154,2) - 7E8BDC ??
      Slot (155,1) - 7E8A9D ??         Slot (155,1) - 7E8BDD ??
      Slot (155,2) - 7E8A9E ??         Slot (155,2) - 7E8BDE ??
      Slot (156,1) - 7E8A9F ??         Slot (156,1) - 7E8BDF ??
      Slot (156,2) - 7E8AA0 ??         Slot (156,2) - 7E8BE0 ??
      Slot (157,1) - 7E8AA1 ??         Slot (157,1) - 7E8BE1 ??
      Slot (157,2) - 7E8AA2 ??         Slot (157,2) - 7E8BE2 ??
      Slot (158,1) - 7E8AA3 ??         Slot (158,1) - 7E8BE3 ??
      Slot (158,2) - 7E8AA4 ??         Slot (158,2) - 7E8BE4 ??
      Slot (159,1) - 7E8AA5 ??         Slot (159,1) - 7E8BE5 ??
      Slot (159,2) - 7E8AA6 ??         Slot (159,2) - 7E8BE6 ??
      Slot (160,1) - 7E8AA7 ??         Slot (160,1) - 7E8BE7 ??



                           ===============
                           -ITEM ID CODES-
                           ===============

WEAPON IDs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

  PAR VALUE           ITEM NAME
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯        ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
     0B8           Knight's Sabre
     0E0           ?Sword                 <Thunderclap>
     0F0           ?Sword                 <Ice Scimitar>
     100           ?Sword                 <Moon Falux>
     110           ?Sword                 <Ice Coffin>
     120           ?Sword                 <Tidal Axe>
     130           ?Sword                 <Flaming Sword>
     140           ?Sword                 <Bahamut's Tail>
     150           ?Sword                 <Arc Wind>
     160           ?Sword                 <Duelist's Sword>
     170           ?Sword                 <Slayer Sword>
     180           ?Sword                 <Dragon Tooth>
     190           ?Sword                 <Lucky Blade>
     1A0           ?Sword                 <Holy Sword>
     1B0           ?Sword                 <Spine Sheath>
     1C0           ?Sword                 <Long Sword>
     2F0           ?Sword                 <Demon Hand>
     350           ?Sword                 <Excalibur>
     390           ?Sword                 <Saint's Rapier>
     670           Long Sword
     680           Warrior Sword
     690           Damascus Sword
     6A0           Rapier
     6B0           Steel Rapier
     6C0           Epee
     720           Sabre
     730           Sharp Sabre
     740           Sinclair
     780           Ice Scimitar
     790           Moon Falux
     7A0           Duelist's Sword</pre><pre id="faqspan-9">
     7C0           Demon Hand
     7D0           Lucky Blade
     7E0           Laser Blade
     800           Slayer Sword
     810           Holy Sword
     820           Ice Coffin
     830           Dragon Tooth
     840           Spine Sheath
     850           Saint's Rapier
     860           Flaming Sword
     8B0           Excalibur
     8C0           Flamberge
     8D0           Vorpal
     8E0           Eternal Sword
     B10           Muramasa
     C50           Destroyer
     0D0           Naginata
     6D0           Corsica
     6E0           Glaive
     750           Halberd
     760           Mecha-Halberd
     770           Polearm
     880           Gungnir
     890           Tidal Axe
     8A0           Arc Wind
     6F0           Battle Axe 
     700           Crescent
     710           Baldish
     7B0           Hard Cleaver
     7F0           Thunderclap
     870           Bahamut's Tail
     1D0           ?Bow                       <Flare Spread>
     1E0           ?Bow                       <Sand Spread>
     1F0           ?Bow                       <Wave Spread>
     200           ?Bow                       <Gale Spread>
     210           ?Bow                       <Soul Stealer>
     220           ?Bow                       <Short Bow>
     3A0           ?Bow                       <Berserker Bow>
     8F0           Short Bow
     900           Long Bow
     910           Berserker Bow
     920           Composite Bow
     930           Double Bow
     940           Elven Bow
     950           Crescent Bow
     960           Sand Spread
     970           Wave Spread
     980           Flare Spread
     990           Gale Spread
     9A0           Soul Stealer
     270           ?Book                      <Yellow Kings>
     280           ?Book                      <Rabionis>
     290           ?Book                      <Seventh Sun>
     2A0           ?Book                      <Ex Mortis>
     2B0           ?Book                      <Book of Seals>
     2C0           ?Book                      <Porno Magazine>
     3B8           Namco Gamer
     A30           Tome
     A40           Opuscule
     A50           Tractate
     A60           Grimorum
     A70           Yellow Kings
     A80           Rabionis
     A90           Seventh Sun
     AA0           Ex Mortis
     AB0           Book of Seals
     AC0           Porno Magazine
     230           ?Rod                       <Rune Rod>
     250           ?Staff                     <Star Rod>
     260           ?Staff                     <Rod>
     9B0           Rod
     9C0           Gem Rod
     9D0           Ruby Rod
     9E0           Rune Rod
     9F0           Holy Rod
     A00           Unicorn Horn
     A10           Star Rod
     A20           Blue Crystal Rod
     240           Witch Broom
     AD0           Broom
     AE0           Star Broom
     AF0           Mystic Broom
     B00           Sylph Broom
     B20           Magical Broom



ARMOR IDs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

  PAR VALUE           ITEM NAME
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯        ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
     310           Gold Helm 
     370           ?Helm                      <Paladin Helm>
     380           ?Helm                      <Star Helm>
     3B0           ?Helm                      <Star Cap>
     3C0           ?Helm                      <Leather Hat>
     D10           Leather Hat
     D20           Iron Circlet
     D30           Fine Helm
     D40           Knight Helm
     D50           Beret
     D60           Mitre
     D70           Panama Hat
     D80           Silk Hat
     D90           Ribbon
     DA0           Blue Ribbon
     DB0           Striped Ribbon
     DC0           Festive Ribbon
     DD0           Paladin Helm
     DE0           Star Helm
     DF0           Rare Helm
     E00           Mage Ribbon
     E10           Star Cap
     2D0           ?Armor                     <Mithril Mesh>
     2E0           Dark Robe
     300           ?Armor                     <Reflect Plate>
     320           ?Armor                     <Star Cloak>
     330           ?Armor                     <Golden Armor>
     340           ?Armor                     <Gaia Armor>
     360           ?Armor                     <Tunic>
     B30           Tunic
     B40           Chain Mail
     B50           Ring Mail
     B60           Splint Mail
     B70           Breast Mail
     B80           Plate Mail
     B90           Cloak
     BA0           Amber Cloak
     BB0           Silver Cloak
     BC0           Silver Plate
     BD0           Mithril Mesh
     BE0           Mithril Plate
     BF0           Rare Plate
     C00           Reflect Plate
     C10           Holy Cloak 
     C20           Star Cloak
     C30           Golden Armor
     C40           Gaia Armor
     C60           Wooden Shield
     C70           Round Shield
     C80           Kite Shield
     C90           Knight Shield
     CA0           Fine Shield
     CB0           Ankh Shield
     CC0           Star Shield
     CD0           Rare Shield
     CE0           Shield Ring
     CF0           Red Line Shield
     D00           Blue Line Shield
     E20           Leather Gloves
     E30           Iron Gloves
     E40           Gauntlet
     E50           Mithril Gloves
     E60           Star Gloves
     E70           Rare Gountlet
     E80           Hyper Gauntlet
     E90           Cute Mittens


ACCESSORY IDs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

  PAR VALUE           ITEM NAME
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯        ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
     020           Amethyst Ring
     040           Diamond Ring
     050           Emerald Ring
     010           Garnet Ring
     030           Aquamarine Ring
     060           Moonstone Ring
     0A0           Opal Ring
     070           Ruby Ring
     080           Sardonyx Ring
     090           Sapphire Ring
     0B0           Topaz Ring
     0C0           Turquoise Ring
     168           Jade Ring
     500           Fairy Ring
     5D0           Moon Crystal
     610           Mental Ring
     138           Holy Rune
     5C0           Black Onyx
     510           Force Ring
     178           Protect Ring
     198           Mantle
     1A8           Leather Mantle
     540           Aqua Mantle
     530           Flame Mantle
     1C8           Silver Cape
     560           Princess Cape
     188           Resist Ring
     520           Deflect Ring
     258           Silver Mattock
     248           Heavy Stone
     238           Evil Rune
     288           Body Amulet
     278           Gorgon Amulet
     268           Poison Amulet
     580           Blue Talisman
     1F8           Talisman
     148           Battle Rune
     158           Mystical Rune
     398           Mana Earring
     228           Fight Rune
     208           Elven Boots
     590           Nightmare Boots
     218           Iron Boots
     5A0           Persian Boots
     2A8           Rabbit's Foot
     640           Nymph's Ring
     630           Salamander's Ring
     1E8           Reverse Doll
     600           Armlet
     1B8           Wool Mantle
     550           Elven Mantle
     298           White Mist
     5B0           Mist Rune
     650           Combo Command
     3A8           Jet Boots
     3F8           Sorcerer's Ring
     1D8           Dark Seal
     570           Demon Seal
     0F8           Magic Pouch
     4F0           Magical Pouch
     5F0           Dedis Emblem


SUPPLY IDs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

  PAR VALUE           ITEM NAME
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯        ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
     F20           Apple Gummy
     3D0           Lemon Gummy
     F30           Orange Gummy
     3E0           Pine Gummy
     F40           Mixed Gummy
     3F0           Miracle Gummy
     F00           Medicine Bottle
     F10           Remedy Bottle
     FB0           Elixir
     EC0           Life Bottle
     EE0           Flare Bottle
     EA0           Spy Lens
     EB0           Hourglass
     440           Chrono Glass
     F60           Sage
     410           Red Sage
     F50           Savory
     400           Red Savory
     F70           Lavender
     420           Red Lavender
     F80           Verbena
     430           Red Verbena
     108           Lipstick 
     ED0           Charm Bottle
     450           Lotus Perfume
     660           Basilisk Egg
     2F8           Cat's Eye
     308           Ivory Tusk
     318           Whale Meat
     328           Yellow Cake
     338           Sake
     348           Guiness
     358           Medicine Herb
     368           S-Flag
     378           Painting
     388           Soup Pot
     3D8           Pick-Axe
     3E8           Rope
     620           Skeleton Key
     2B8           Blue Candle
     2C8           Red Lantern
     2D8           Green Torch
     F90           Holy Bottle
     FA0           Dark Bottle
     0E8           Scout Orb 
     118           Sefira
     4E0           Sefira+1
     EF0           Rune Bottle
     2E8           Combo Counter
     128           Drum Set
     5E0           Mah Jong Tile


FOOD IDs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

  PAR VALUE           ITEM NAME
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯        ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
     088           Miso
     098           Radish
     0C8           Seaweed
     0D8           Egg
     3C8           Oden
     038           Seafood
     4B0           Tuna
     058           Mackerel
     048           Veggies
     0A8           Pudding
     078           Twinkie
     4D0           Butter
     FC0           Bread
     470           Cheese
     FD0           Creamy Cheese
     068           Apple
     4C0           Japanese Apple
     460           Burger
     480           Beef
     008           Chicken
     028           Veal
     4A0           Pork Roast
     018           Boar Roast
     FF0           Steak
     FE0           Sirloin Steak
     490           Dragon Steak



======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
VI.-                          MISCELLANEOUS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================

¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VI.1  Yume Wa Owaranai Lyrics
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 Yume Wa Owaranai is the J-Pop song of Tales of Phantasia. The lyrics
are for the short version included in the game.


Lyrics by:  Syoko Fujibayashi
 Composer:  Toshiyuki Sekiguchi
 Arranger:  Hiroya Hatsushiba
   Singer:  Yukari Yoshida


                        Mahiro no sora tsuki ga
                         Anata no me wo sarau
                        Zutto matteta kono toki
                     Mo namida owaraseru no akeni

                        Mabuta tokeru hizashi
                          Tooi ase no kioku
                     Koko ni mezame no toki oriru

                   Mitsukete your dream kowarekaketa
                            Toki ni umoreta
                        Sono chikara ni kizuite

                   Mitsukete your dream doko e itemo
                  Kikoeteru omoi tsutai kiss kiss kiss



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VI.2 Norse Mythology in Tales of Phantasia
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

 Tales of Phantasia has a lot of Norse Mythology, this section will
try to cover as much of it as possible, please send any other info you
can add.



Fenrir      -  A wolf son of Loki. It reached Asgard (the world of the
               gods) and had to be bound. The Gods tried many times to
               control him, but the wolf broke all fetters, until the
               Gods used a fetter called Gleipnir, which had been made
               by dwarves. Sadly the God Tyr lost his hand in the
               process. Fenrir will break free during Ragnarok and
               devour Odin. In Tales of Phantasia, Fenrir is one of
               the ancient civilizations that destroyed each other
               long ago.


Gungnir     -  Odin's spear, made by the dwarves, it never missed it's
               mark. In Tales of Phantasia the Gungnir is the weapon
               given to Cless after the party saves the prince of
               Alvanista from Dhaos' control.


Heimdall    -  The god who guards the rainbow bridge called Bifrost,
               which connects the realm of gods (Asgard) with the
               realm of humans (Midgard). He was chosen to be guard
               for his incredible talents: being able to hear the
               the grass as it grows and seeing hundreds of miles even
               in darkness. In Tales of Phantasia, Heimdall is the 
               name of the place inside the Treant's Forest where
               Origin resides.


Midgard     -  The world of mankind in Norse mythology. Midgar means
               middle earth or middle garden, it was created by Odin
               and his brother's out of the eyebrows of the defeated
               giant Ymir. Actually, in Japanese, the name of the city
               is written like Mid Galds, but judging by the amount of
               references to Norse Mythology in the game, Midgard
               seems more sensible.


Odin        -  The highest of the Norse gods. He possessed a spear
               which never missed it's mark, called Gungnir, a horse
               with eight legs which could run through the seas and
               the skies and a magic ring which created nine of itself
               each night. Odin once hanged himself on the Yggdrasill
               for nine nights to learn the runes, he also gave up one
               of his eyes for wisdom. Odin would die during Ragnarok,
               swallowed by the Fenris Wolf, but even knowing that, he
               chose to battle. In Tales of Phantasia Odin is one of
               the three civilizations that destroyed each other long
               ago (together with Thor and Fenris).


Ragnarok    -  The end and the beginning of the world. The Fenris wolf
               locked by the gods shall break free and swallow Odin,
               the nine worlds under the Yggdrasill will be destroyed,
               the sun and the moon will be swallowed, leaving the
               world in absolute darkness. After the battle, Odin's
               sons shall reappear and the world shall flourish again.


Sleipnir    -  Odin's eight legged horse. Sleipnir could run through
               the seas and the skies. This horse was the offspring of
               Loki, a Giant that lived with the Gods until he killed
               Odin's son and was bound until Ragnarok. Sleipnir is a
               personification of the wind and his eight legs
               represent the eight cardinal points (N, E, S, W, N-W,
               N-E, S-E and S-W). Sleipnir is not actually in the
               game, but he should. Near the middle of the game, you
               get to ride on Odin's horse, but you are given a
               Pegasus for some reason. However, Sleipnir does appear
               in some art of the game, like the image in the package.


Thor        -  The God of Thunder, he possessed the mighty hammer
               Mjollnir, which was so powerful that he needed a steel
               gauntlet and a belt that gave him strength (the tighter
               he pulled it, the more powerful he got). Thor would be
               at Odin's side during Ragnarok, but he could not save
               Odin, for his hands would be full fighting the Midgar
               Serpent. Thor would defeat the Serpent, but he would
               die after walking nine steps. In Tales of Phantasia,
               Thor is one of the ancient civilizations, it was
               sunk into the sea by a meteor when the war between Odin
               and Fenrir was just beginning.


Valhalla    -  The place where Odin gathered the dead warriors chosen
               by the Valkyries. The Valhalla Plains are named after
               this place in the game.


Valkyrie    -  They were female warriors which served the slain
               warriors in the Valhalla. They are sent by Odin to
               battles and they choose the warriors to die in battles
               and join Odin's Army. In Tales of Phantasia Valkyrie is
               one of Mint's spells, it summons a Valkyrie which
               raises the party's attack power. Also, the person who
               lets you ride on Odin's horse near the middle of the
               game is a Valkyrie.


Yggdrasill  -  It's the World Tree, it keeps the world's balance. The
               Tree keeps the many worlds of the Norse Mythology,
               Midgar (the realm of humans) in the middle, Asgard (the
               realm of gods) at the top, at the bottom is Nifelheim,
               also called Hel by some people (the land of the dead).
               In Tales of Phantasia the Yggdrasill is more like the
               Mana Tree, if the tree dies the magic disappears, but
               in Norse Mythology the Yggdrasill is the universe
               itself, so if the tree dies there is no more world.


Ymir        -  The first Giant to exist. He was killed by Odin and his
               brothers. The blood spilt drowned almost the whole race
               of Giants. After the battle Odin and his brothers used
               Ymir's body to make the world, his blood became the sea
               and lakes, his flesh became earth, his skull became the
               sky, his hair became the trees, and so on. In Tales of
               Phantasia, Ymir is the name of a forest.



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VI.3- Some Other Interesting Things
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


Euclid      -  Famous Greek mathematician, considered father of the
               Geometry. He lived about 300 years before Christ. In
               Tales of Phantasia, Euclid is the name of a city, more
               exactly the one in which Klarth lives.


Moria       -  In 'Lord of the Rings' (a book by J.R.R. Tolkien), the
               Dwarves lived in the Moria Mines. They dug up mithril
               in the mine until the excavations released a demon
               called Balrog. Most of the dwarves were killed and the
               rest where expelled by Balrog. In Tales of Phantasia,
               there's a dungeon where the Dwarves used to live. It is
               called Moria Gallery... Note that Moria is also the
               name of the mount were Abraham was supposed to
               sacrifice his son, Isaac.


Treant      -  A mythical creature, better known as an Ent, that
               resembles a large and moving tree. (I think the first
               "appearance" of this creature is in JRR Tolkien's "Lord
               of the Rings"). In Tales of Phantasia, there's a forest
               named after this being.


Sylph       -  Paracelsus, a 16th century alchemist, believed that
               Syplhs were elemental beings without a soul, inhabiting
               the air and influencing Man's temperament (usually
               badly). Other definitions just say a Sylph is a nymph
               of the air. In Tales of Phantasia, Sylph is one of the
               four Elemental Spirits that make a contract with
               Klarth.


Undine      -  A nymph of the water. In Tales of Phantasia, Undine is
               one of the four Elemental Spirits that make a contract
               with Klarth.


Ifrit       -  A fire elemental or djinn in Arabic mythology. In Tales
               of Phantasia, Ifrit is one of the four Elemental
               Spirits that make contracts with Klarth.


Gnome       -  A fantastic creature thought to have the figure of a
               dwarf. They are said to work on the veins of metal in
               the mines. In Tales of Phantasia, Gnome is one of the
               four Elemental Spirits that make contracts with Klarth.


Maxwell     -  James Clerk Maxwell, a Scottish Physicist whose main
               works was 'Electricity and Magnetism'. Mr. Maxwell said
               once that if a small being could use low and high
               energy particles to transport itself by creating a
               cushion of hot air, it would be able to achieve
               perpetual motion. 
            -  'Maxwell's Demon' was theorized by James Clerk Maxwell.
               The theoretical power of 'Maxwell's Demon' is to
               control the supposedly-random movement of atomic
               particles across a boundary (e.g. between 2 sealed
               chambers); thus in ToP Maxwell (when summoned) appears
               as a number of randomly-bouncing "atomic-looking"
               particles.


Luna        -  Luna means 'Moon' in Latin (and in its derivatives,
               such as Spanish). In Tales of Phantasia, Luna is
               the name of one the spirits that make a contract with
               Klarth. She lives in the Tower of the Twelve Stars with
               her helper Artemis.


Artemis     -  The Greek goddess of hunting. She was the twin sister
               of Apollo and daughter of Zeus. She never married, nor
               had a partner. She was also the goddess of childbirth
               because she is said to have helped her mother as a
               midwife during the birth of her brother. Artemis was
               also a moon deity and Apolo's counterpart. Apolo's
               arrows represented sun light, while Artemis' where the
               moon light. The Romans identified Artemis with Diana.
               In Tales of Phantasia, Artemis is the name of Luna's
               helper.


Dwarf       -  They are small only because they are accustomed to
               lifestyles underground in low caverns. They have
               excellent night vision, plus they have  great strength
               and can generally hit harder tan a normal human. Most
               are also machinery-inclined, making them very competent
               engineers, blacksmiths and the like (Origin, God of
               Dwarves in ToP, embodies this principle very well, see
               how easily he forges the sword and fixes the rings?)
               However, contrary to ToP, Dwarves are not magically-
               inclined and generally shun magic. They produce high
               quality weapons, but they almost never produce
               enchanted ones, only Gnomes are an exception.


Banshee     -  In Gaelic mythology, a female spirit whose screeching
               foreshadows death. In Tales of Phantasia, the Banshees
               are just enemies you meet.


Basilisk    -  Also known as Cockatrice, a reptile that had the body
               of a bird and the tail of a snake. The Greeks and
               Romans thought that looking into this monster's eyes
               was fatal. In Tales of Phantasia, the Basilisk in just
               enemy you meet.


Cerberus    -  The dog with three heads and the tail of a snake that
               guarded the land of death. Cerberus would prevent dead
               people from escaping while keeping the living outside
               (just in case someone wanted to enter for some obscure
               reason ^_^). In Tales of Phantasia, Cerberus is just
               another enemy.

Charon      -  Bargeman who operated the boat that transports the
               souls of dead people to the underworld. In Tales of
               Phantasia, Charons are normal enemies.


Chimera     -  An imaginary monster with the head of a lion, the body
               of a goat and the tail of a dragon. In Tales of
               Phantasia, a Chimera is just an enemy.


Gorgon      -  In Greek mythology, woman with snakes instead of hair,
               who turned men who looked at them into stone. In Tales
               of Phantasia, the Gorgons are just enemies you meet.


Harpy       -  In Greek mythology monsters with the heads of old women
               and the bodies of birds. They were very fierce and
               vengeful. In Tales of Phantasia the Harpies are just
               enemies you meet.


Mandrake    -  A poisonous plant. Its thick roots remind the form of a
               human. This was probably the source of many Medieval
               myths, such as such as believing it to be an evil plant
               which brought luck to thieves and enlightened
               sorcerers. The Mandrake is just an enemy in Tales of
               Phantasia


Seraphim    -  In the Bible and Hebrew mythology, a particular class
               of angel. In Tales of Phantasia, Seraphim in just an
               enemy.


Wyvern      -  A Dragon with four limbs (two wings and two legs, that
               is). In Tales of Phantasia, the Wyvern is the monster
               who guards the treasures of the Dwarves at the bottom
               of the Moria Gallery.


Lilith      -  According to a Hebrew legend, Lilith was Adam's first
               wife. Because she wanted to be Adam's equal, he
               banished her from the Garden of Eden, and she then
               consorted with demons, even breeding hideous
               half-demons. God then created a woman in front of Adam,
               part by part. When she was finished, Adam rejected her,
               as he had seen the rather crude creation process. God
               was forced to destroy this woman without even giving
               her a name and finally gave Eve to Adam. In Tales of
               Phantasia, Lilith is the name of Edward Morrison's
               wife.


Livingston  -  Dr. David Livingstone was a famous man who went
               through and discovered the deep jungles of Africa. He
               found quite a few medicines and foods, and some
               interesting places. When he disappeared, the New York
               Herald sent a reporter called Henry Stanley to look for
               him. The names were somehow combined to create Dr.
               Stanley Livingston, who creates the Airbirds in ToP.


Maria       -  She is Cless' mother in Tales of Phantasia. Maria is
               the Spanish for Mary, just like the mother of Jesus in
               Christianity. However, I don't think Cless' mother's
               name has any real meaning (or at least, not a meaning
               related to this).


Miguel      -  Cless' father in Tales of Phantasia. Miguel means
               Michael in Spanish. Michael is the name of one of the
               three Archangels mentioned in the Bible. He is the one
               to defeat Satan in the Apocalypse. He also referred to
               as the 'Prince of the Heavenly Army' sometimes. Being a
               warrior, he is usually represented in art wearing an
               armor and using his sword to defeat Satan.


Flamberge   -  Also referred to as the Flamberg or Flammberg. The
               Flamberge is a form of the two-handed sword popular in
               Germany between the 15th and 17th centuries with a
               wavy, flame-like blade (the purpose of this is not
               clear as there is no demonstrated advantage to such an
               edge). Often, the Flamberge was used as a court weapon;
               since undulating blade was far more attractive than a
               plain blade. In Tales of Phantasia, Flamberge is the
               name of the legendary weapon of the ancient nation of
               Odin.


Mah Jongg   -  A game originated in China in which four people play.
               There 152 tiles (or blocks) with certain designs (also
               called suits and combinations). The game's actual
               objective is to complete a winning hand combination;
               that combination is called the Mah Jongg. It like a
               card game of sorts. The blocks are designed like one to
               nine of sticks, one to nine of balls, etc. The winning
               hand combinations may vary. In ToP, there's an item
               called Mah Jhong, that makes Mah Jongg pieces fall on
               the enemies when you use it in battle.


Vorpal      -  The Vorpal Sword appeared in the book 'Through the
               Looking Glass' by Lewis Carroll, as part of the famous
               poem 'Jabberwocky'. Many of the words in this poem were
               made up by Carroll, and 'Vorpal' is no exception.
               However, unlike the others, it holds no clear meaning;
               Carroll himself said: "I am afraid I can't explain
               'Vorpal Blade'...". In Tales of Phantasia, Vorpal is
               the name of the legendary weapon of the ancient nation
               of Fenrir.



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VI.4- Voice Actors
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

 I got the inspiration for this section from a Tales of Destiny guide.
This information could be especially interesting for those who like
anime. All the information here is from Hitoshi Doi's Seiyuu Database,
which is huge. I was surprised about the information I found.

 The list of the works the seiyuus have done is not by any means
complete, I only listed the series and games I have heard about and
consider important. If you think that I'm missing a significant anime
or game which involves them, just let me know.

NOTE:  'Anime' is the name for Japanese Cartoons. With the information
      for each Seiyuu (Japanese voice actor) is a list of some of the
      animes they have worked in.


Takeshi Kusao
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
   Character:   Cless Alvein and Chester Barklight
General Info:   Kusao Takeshi was born on November 20th in Saitama.
                His blood type is B. He is 165 cm tall and weighs 58
                kg. His three sizes are 88-76-87. His shoe size is
                25.5 cm. He works for Aoni Production.
       Anime:   · 'Dragon Ball Z' as Trunks
                · 'Gundam F-91' as Drell Rona
                · 'Kareshi Kanojo no Jijou' as Mirazawa Hiroyuki
                · 'Record of Lodoss War' as Parn
                · 'Saint Seiya' as Wolf Nachi
                · 'Shoujo Kakumei Utena' as Saionji Kyouichi
                · 'Slam Dunk' as Sakuragi Hanamichi
                · 'Video Girl Ai' as Moteuchi Youta
       Games:   - 'Langrisser' I and II for the PSX as Erwin
                - 'Tales of Phantasia' for the PSX as Cless Alvein


Satomi Koorogi
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
   Character:   Mint Adnade
General Info:   Koorogi Satomi was born on November 14th, 1966 in 
                Tokyo. Her true name is Kourogi Satomi. Her blood type
                is A. She is 146 cm tall and weighs 37 kg. She works
                for Production Baobab. 
       Anime:   · 'Kimagure Orange Road' as Chie
                · 'Love Hina' as Moe (episode 20)
                · 'Macross 7' as Pedro
                · 'Pocket Monsters' (AKA Pokemon) as Togepi
                · 'Rayearth' as Sera (episode 15)
                · 'RG Veda' as Aizen
                · 'V Gundam' as Suzy Lilane, Karuruman Dukartus and
                   Connie Francis
                · 'Virtua Fighter' as Liliana
       Games:   - 'Magic Knight Rayearth' for the Sega Saturn as Sara
                - 'Puyo Puyo-n' for the Dreamcast as Harpy


Kazuhiko Inoue
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
   Character:   Klarth F. Lester and Tornix D. Morrison
General Info:   Inoue Kazuhiko was born on March 26th, 1954 in
                Yokohama, Kanagawa. His blood type is O. He is 173 cm
                tall and weighs 67 kg. His shoe size is 26.5 cm. He
                works for Ohsawa Jimusho. 
       Anime:   · 'Blue Seed' as Kusanagi Mamoru
                · 'Candy Candy' as Anthony
                · 'Captain Tsubasa' as Carlos Santana
                · 'Fushigi Yuugi' as Rokou
                · 'Ranma 1/2' as Sanzenin Mikado
                · 'Shoujo Kakumei Utena: Adolesence' as Saionji
                   Kyouichi
                · 'Urusei Yatsura' as Ozuno Tsubame
                · 'X' as Kigai Yuuto
                · 'Z Gundam' as Jerid Mesa
       Games:   - 'Langrisser' I and II for the PSX as Lance
                - 'Tales of Phantasia' for the PSX as Klarth F. Lester


Mika Kanai
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
   Character:   Arche Klaine
General Info:   Kanai Mika was born on March 18th, 1964 in Tokyo. Her
                true name is Yamadera Mika Her blood type is O. She is
                154 cm tall and weighs 38 kg. Her three sizes are
                78-56-79. Her shoe size is 22 cm. She works for Ken
                Productions. 
       Anime:   · 'Gundam X' as Tifa Adelle
                · 'Pocket Monsters' (AKA Pokemon) as Purin, Mariru and
                   Chikolita
                · 'Ranma 1/2' as the panda in the drawing
                · 'Sailor Moon' as Shiratori Mikan
                · 'Sailor Moon S' as Mimete
                · 'SD Gundam' as Fairy Kikka
                · 'Sonic The Hedgehog' as Sara
       Games:   - 'Langrisser III' for the Sega Saturn as Tialis
                - 'Tales of Phantasia' for the PSX as Arche Klaine



Kaneto Shiozawa
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
   Character:   Dhaos
General Info:   Shiozawa Kaneto was born on January 28th, 1954 in
                Tokyo. His blood type is A. His true name is Shiozawa
                Toshikazu. He works for Aoni Production. He passed
                away on 2000/05/10. 
       Anime:   · 'Bubble Gum Crisis' as Gibson (episode 4)
                · 'Detective Conan' as Detective Shiratori
                · 'Dragon Half' as Rosario
                · 'Dragon Ball GT' as San Shin Long
                · 'Ellcia' as Felkis
                · 'Gundam' as Cameron Bloom and Ma Kube
                · 'Fushigi no Umi no Nadia' as Emperor Neo
                · 'Sailor Moon R' as Prince Demando
                · 'Saint Seiya' as Aries Mu
       Games:   - 'Langrisser' I and II for the PSX as Bozel
                - 'Langrisser IV' for the Sega Saturn as the
                   mysterious magician
                - 'Metal Gear Solid' as Ninja (Gray Fox)
                - 'Tales of Phantasia' for the PSX as Dhaos




¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VI.5- Extra Tactics
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


BOSS: Ifrit___________________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Patrick Claypool):
     When the fight started, I had Arche set on her water spells (you
    know, Ice Needle and Ice Tornado) and Cless was equipped with an
    Ice Scimitar (gotten from Meia). I had Cless mostly use Psion Kick
    and Psion Storm, Mint do healing, and Klarth summon Sylphs (I only
    had Sylphs, because I had decided to get Ifrit first). I used
    Psion Storm and Psion Kick, they were VERY effective. Arche
    favored the Ice Tornado spell, and used it a bunch on Ifrit. after
    a few minutes, Ifrit was dead.


BOSS: Gnome___________________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Patrick Claypool):
     When the fight started, Gnome launched straight into his Rocket
    Attack. When he came up, Mint had a Hammer on him, and Arche used
    her Fire Wall spell (very effective). Then Cless used Tiger Teeth,
    and I repeated this, healing all damage from the Rocket Attack. It
    took ten minutes, but I gave it to him!


BOSS: Undine__________________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Patrick Claypool):
     The fight started, and an energy wave from Undine hit everyone.
    Arche cast Eruption, taking care of the Red Slug. Cless killed the
    Calamari, and then went for Undine with Tiger Teeth and Psion
    Kick, while Klarth summoned Ifrit all the time. Then we pounded on
    Undine. As soon as a spell, attack, or  Spirit had done it's
    damage, another attack would follow instantaneously. And we beat
    Undine! Hurrah!


BOSS: Maxwell_________________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Arterion Gothic):
      I fought him BEFORE reading any walkthroughs, and I must say,
     your suggestions are nice, but he's one of those enemies that is
     really easy if you know how... He is easily pushed to the right-
     hand wall and doesn't attack all the time. Once he's at the wall,
     have Cless use the Gale Shield. Since Maxwell cannot be pushed
     further back, he will inevitably stay in the 'influence area' of
     the skill, taking lots of hits with quite some damage.  When I
     came up to him the first time, I happened to have the skill in
     long range slot, pushed him to the corner, used the skill, and
     won... :)


BOSS: Dhaos (First Time)______________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Henryjin2001):
     I was able to kill Dhaos without killing both Evil Lords, so I
    didn't have to face all those nasty powerful spells, woohoooo.
     Well... here is how I did it. Indignation and Luna both affect
    only those that are on screen where the spell is cast. One of the
    two Evil Lords has a tendency to get very close to my party.  So I
    just let him, and Dhaos would be just far off screen enough for me
    not to hit the Evil Lord close to my party, and by the end of the
    battle, the Evil Lord wasn't even dead yet when Dhaos was!

EXTRA TACTIC (from Tofystedeth)
     An easy way to beat Dhaos is to equip a Moon Falux, (just keep
    fighting Draygens until you get one). Then keep leveling up until
    you get Fury Slash for Cless and Valkyrie for Mint. Now just go
    kill all the Evil Lords in the mirrors, it takes 2-3 Fury Slashes
    each. Then go fight Dhaos, cast Valkyrie, Acid Rain, and Haste.
     This way, Cless does almost as much damage with a Fury Slash
    (when I fought him about 5500) as Arche does with Indignation
    (roughly 6000). And Dhaos can't heal all the damage as only half
    of the damage from the Fury Slash was physical, the rest is light
    damage b/c you are wielding a Moon Falux. He died in about 45
    seconds this way, and I was able to back him into a corner so he
    didn't get to use any spells.


BOSS: Volt____________________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from REMEGSEB@aol.com)
     When fighting Volt, I found that Magma Rift hurts him greatly! It
    makes the battle simple. Get close, have the spellers cast at
    him, but use Magma Rift. WITHOUT a Flare Bottle, Cless was doing
    690+1980 damage total with it (my Cless had 88 Strength and a Hard
    Cleaver equipped...you gotta love Rune Bottles when used on stat
    modifying items).


BOSS: Fang Wolf_______________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Fábio Pereira Simões):
     When the fight started, F.W. started to launch these ice lances
    doing a terrible combo about 500 or 600. Of course, Cless died...
    But I resurrected him using the appropriated item (a S-Flag in my
    case).
     Here's the point. While F.W. was spanking Mint, Cless woke up and
    used Gale Shield. Fang Wolf was 100% in the field of action of the
    G.S. and the blue energy started to pierce him in the same amount
    of damage (500, 600 and even a 700). When Gale Shield was
    finished, Fang Wolf spanked Mint again giving me time to use
    another Gale Shield.
     The beast died using 3 Gale Shields in this fight. Of course,
    luck is needed to do it... Maybe letting Cless die and use a
    resurrection item while F.W. is spanking another character to hit
    him in the back with the G.S. could make this strategy work.


EXTRA TACTIC (from Flyingfox)
     Choose Magma rift and Firebrand as your two SR skills for F.W.
    Then when FW begins to jump around quickly, let him go over Cless
    so you are behind FW. After your behind him just use Magma Rift
    and Firebrand like MAD Use Mint if Klarth gets to a low HP after
    the ass kicking by FW. To make it easier just keep Fire Storm to
    aid CLESS. By the way to make this tactic as easy as possible just
    use the formation given below:
          
        Arche
         Mint    Klarth               Cless


EXTRA TACTIC (from Juan Miguel G de Leon):
     I arrived at Fang Wolf's arena with Cless and Mint at around
    Level 58-60. I followed most of your suggestions for the magic
    users' spells (Arche, Klarth). On Cless I had the very practical
    Magma Rift; it was very effective on many enemies in this dungeon
    (especially that annoying green caveman). My formation was the
    same as well, but I only had one Fairy Ring and one Magical Rune,
    both equipped on Arche.
     The trick is to let Cless hammer Fang Wolf with the trusty Magma
    Rift to buy your spellcasters some time. At L60 Magma Rift does
    around 1000-1100HP damage to Fang Wolf with each hit. It's a lot
    faster and more effective than the sluggish Gale Shield. With Mint
    casting Haste on Cless you can deplete Fang Wolf's HP with just
    the Magma Rift in a fairly short amount of time, while Klarth and
    Arche kill him with their spells.



BOSS: Dozo and Okiyo__________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Joab Hwang):
     Actually, there is a much easier way to kill Suzu's parents when
    they appear.
     From the start of the battle, just use Soul Strike. Since Soul
    Strike consists of one hit then Soul Wave, then you teleport back,
    the ninja's don't even get a chance to hit you because you're just
    too fast!!!!! I did this and I didn't even lose any HP.


BOSS: Neo Dhaos_______________________________________________________
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
EXTRA TACTIC (from Patrick Claypool):
     When the fight started, Neo Dhaos used his invincible spell. I
    set Arche and Klarth to passive mode, and Mint into HP over TP
    mode. I slashed at ND when he  was vulnerable, and then I
    accidentally activated Gale Shield (which was in the  Short Range
    slot). It hadn't been on very long when ND came out of invincible
    mode. ND and his arm took a beating (a good one)! And I repeated
    the move, and ND and arm were out of invincible mode for a long
    time (have Arche cast Meteor Storm and Klarth summon Origin). And
    I kept using these tactics until he died.


                ======================================
                - BEATING THE COLISEUM AT LOW LEVELS -
                ======================================

TACTIC:  By Arlieth Tralare


   I just got to the Coliseum in Future Euclid, and Cless is at Level
  43 with:
          · The Moon sword I had since the Twelve Star tower
          · All the armor from Midgard (past)
          · Moon Crystal (+ 30% TP)
          · Persian Boots (+ 30% Defense)


   Note:  Just to note: I only killed the first 8 guys, not the Wyvern
        (I tried it... and got HORRIBLY slaughtered).

   Essential Skills: Magma Rift and Lionheart.


    As long as you've got Magma Rift, you can deal some massive fire
   damage to all the enemies, until you get to the 8th enemy, that
   lizard thing.

    As for the 7th enemy, the Fe. Golem, use a Flare Bottle and just
   keep poking the guy with Magma Rift. After a while though, the
   golem pushed me into the corner so I had to drive it away with
   2-hit Tiger attacks. Took a long time, but I was able to parry his
   special attack with the Magma Rift.

    Finally, for the Gorgon, I did Lionheart out of desperation, and
   WHOA! It stopped the thing from pulling off its Stone Gaze! It did
   600 damage, and after that Cless ran back, and so I did Lionheart
   again. After a while, I had to use a Gummy to restore some TP (one
   item per round sucks -_-) and kept charging that Basilisk into the
   corner. If you have a controller with turbo on it, just leave it on
   and wait till the basilisk is dead, because Cless runs back just
   far enough out of range for the Lionheart, and you can't use the
   tech while running unless you skid first. =P

    So it is possible to beat the Coliseum on the first visit to
   Euclid. The Golem is the hardest enemy there, next to the wyvern. 



                    ------------------------------



TACTIC:  By Dreams in Digital <fictionn@hotmail.com>

 I've been playing Tales of Phantasia for almost a week, I've reached
level 53 and my party is just after the second time travel to the
future (at 'new' Euclid).

 I noticed a tournament holding at Euclid's Castle, and I thought one
'has to' duel on it the first time. After some tries, I got very
useful 'tactics' to pass the first 8 rounds suffering only two or
three hits! (200-1100 HP). Even though, I haven't found a way to beat
Wyvern (the 9th round). I can, at best, hurt it 12,000 - 18,000 HP,
not more, and it is 41,000 HP!... a true impossible mission at low
levels.

Here you have the details/tricks to defeat the first 8 challengers
easily, no matter what level you are. It only matters to follow the
tactic, and voila!, you're done.


::[ Equip ]::
Weap - Damascus
Body - Mithril Mesh
Shld - Fine Shield
Head - Knight Helm
Hand - Gauntlet
Acc1 - Moon Crystal
Acc2 - Jade Ring
Plenty of Flare Bottles (15)

 Most of the Equip is sold in the town, the Moon Crystal is a Black
Onyx transformed by a Rune Bottle, and the Jade Ring is obtained at
Dhaos' Fortress. This is a suggested equip, if you miss something or
can't afford it, just keep this is mind when equipping Cless: TP is
ALL you need.


::[ Skills ]::
SRA - Tiger Teeth
SRB - Eir's Love
LRA - Lionheart
LRB - Phoenix

 Tiger Teeth and Lionheart skills are INDISPENSABLE. You can choose
whatever two other skills, but, in my opinion, Bladestorm and Psion
Bolt (and the skills which involves them) are useless.


::[ Tactics ]::

Round 1 - Bugbear.
 Hummm... how can I say?... Hit him!... that's all, loma. He'll die at
first hit.


 For the rounds 2 to 5, and round 8, we'll use the same tactic,
nevertheless, I wrote down some notes for each one.

 The tactic is to use ALL THE TIME the Lionheart skill. This is a Long
Range skill, so, you MUST keep in mind that the Long Range skill is
active only when you are 6-8 bodies away of your enemy, or if you
don't see it in the same screen.

 Always give one or two steps backwards at the start of any of these
battles, thus you'll guarantee that the attack is gonna be a Long
Range one, then start attacking.

 If you need to use an item, do it ONLY when Cless runs back
immediately after 'tackling' the enemy, this way you wont waste time,
allowing the enemy to reach you. All of these rounds use the 'touch of
death' attacks, this is, even if their attacks does not hurt you
considerably, you are defeated when touched. That's for why we use
this skill, the Lionheart attack is almost impossible to be stooped,
only your delay may allow it. NEVER allow one of these enemies to push
you at he end of the screen, if it happens, sorry, you'll have to
start over again.

 Please remember to keep your distance, if you do it, you'll see how
this tournament is a piece of cake. In most cases, you wont see the
enemy in the same screen when Cless runs back, this is perfect!... if
they don't see you, they wont stop you.

Round 2 - Krakken.
 Krakken will try to hit you with it s tentacles, if it does, run away
as far as you can and use the Lionheart immediately to push it away
(other skills wont stop it). If it knocks you or if it push you to the
end of the screen, it'll make an infinite attack using all its
tentacles. In other words: Bye-Bye.

 If you do the things right, you'll kill it after 10-16 Lionheart
attacks (depends on your level). Remember to use the Flare Bottles,
specially, remember WHEN to use them,

Round 3 - Mandrake.
 The same tactic as above, just take care of not to be more than 6
bodies away from it, if it happens, give a couple of steps forward and
continue with your Lionheart attacks. If Cless gets more than 6 bodies
away, Mandrake will have the time to put its 'arms' in front of it
when the Lionheart attack goes by, and, if touched, you'll be
petrified.

Round 4 - Darkvine.
 A very easy one with this tactic. It'll absorb your HP while you're
near, but it'll be a little amount. It should be killed in 3-5
Lionheart attacks.

Round 5 - Draygen.
 The easiest of these 'touch of death' pack,
it'll die upon 2-4 Lionheart attacks.


Round 6 - Oak Root.
 This is like a 'bonus' round, the Oak Root is so slow that you have
time to use an Orange Gummie (pretty sure you'll need it at this
moment), an Apple Gummie or the Eir's Love skill for healing. The
Phoenix, Lighting Bolt, and all skills that involves them, should kill</pre><pre id="faqspan-10">
it in one or two hits. Just push the button and you're done, not even
waste a Flare Bottle.

Round 7 - Fe. Golem.
 In my opinion, this one is the hardest of all rounds. Unlike the
previous battles, here you MUST NOT use the Lionheart attack, unless
you want to die. This tactic opposes the 'hit 'n run' of the
Lionheart, here you'll use a 'hit-hit-hit-hit..' attack. Finally we'll
use the Tiger Teeth, in fact, we'll ONLY use the Tiger Teeth attack.

 When the battle starts, walk toward the Fe. Golem, and, when you get
1-2 bodies from him, use the Tiger Teeth skill. Immediately after the
second hit, pop up the menu an pick a Flare Bottle. It'll be knocked
out every 5-8 Tiger Teeth attacks, whenever this happen, is time to
heal, or select a Flare Bottle. If you're ok, then continue with your
attacks (it can stay unconscious for 4-6 times consecutively). DO NOT
use another attack on him, like Bladestorm, Phoenix, Lighting Bolt,
etc.; they're all useless, probably it'll hit you instead.

 You'll be always in risk, 'cos if the Tiger Teeth attack fails its
two hits, the Fe. Golem will attack, hurting you for about 1100-2000
HP, and 'throw' you to the end of the screen.

 Thanks God it's damn slow, so you can recover from unconsciousness
and even use the Eir's Love skill in front of him.

 This battle needs a lot of synchronization, don't feel bad if you
can't the first time, also, don't desperate, if you do things right,
eventually, it'll die.

 I killed it with about 26-32 Tiger Teeth attacks, using 4 Flare
Bottles, and it only hits me once.

Round 8 - Gorgon.
 After the long-long and tedious battle against the Fe. Golem, now
we're back to the 'hit 'n run' days. The Gorgon is the worst of those
enemies with the 'touch of death', if you fail your attack once, it'll
paralyze you. If you walk near to it, it'll petrify you, and, if you
try to run, it'll reach you (it's extremely faster, not as the
Basilisk you once faced). So, this battle needs the Lionheart
'tactic' of the first rounds, AND the quickness of the battle against
the Fe. Golem. This means, give one step backwards, then attack with
Lionheart, the Gorgon will run to you and make the 'between-space'
shorter. Here comes your synchronization, when Cless runs back, DO NOT
wait till he stops, but press the Lionheart skill button when 5-6
bodies away the Gorgon. Now using the items is more difficult,
remember to use them ONLY when Cless runs back, if you stop at anytime
in this battle, you're dead. It'll die with 16-24 Lionheart attacks.


If you want to try the 9th round, here you have my suggestions.

Round 9 - Wyvern.
 I have just one day in this tournament, and, as I dunno what's next,
I'll give up beating this 9th Round.

 I've hurt it for about 12,000 - 18,000 HP, but it's not even the half
of its HP. I'll tell you how to do this, maybe you can defeat it and
became the 'master' of this tournament... hehe.

 You MUST'VE selected Phoenix and Lionheart skills. When the battle
starts, try to reach Cless' corner as soon as possible, then use
Phoenix (don't give Wyvern a lot of time or it'll cast an explosion
spell that hurts you about 4,000-4,500 HP, and obviously, you'll die).

 After the Phoenix attack, use Lionheart, it wont make any damage, but
you'll be on the other corner of the screen. There, press L or R to
change Cless' direction. Now you're at Wyvern's back, use Phoenix
again (twice if you can), and repeat the process: use Lionheart to
reach the other corner of the screen, change Cless' direction and use
Phoenix again.

 Yeah!, I know it may sound stupid, but if you do it fast enough, you
can attack it without getting hurt, and, if someone heard your
prayers, you can make this attacks 10, maybe 15 times.



                    ------------------------------



TACTIC:  By Evan Behar

 The Coliseum in Euclid is not all that hard, interestingly enough.
I arrived with Cless at level 37 and managed to defeat every enemy,
including the Wyvern.  Your results may vary: I transformed all my
Sage to Red Sage, and even converted some Savory to Red Savory and
then to Red Sage, in addition to giving Cless a lot of Red Savory, so
Cless's HP was around 6650 and his TP was up in the 800s.  That
notwithstanding, this is what I hit with:

Techniques:
Short Range: Tiger Teeth, Fury Slash
Long Range: Phoenix, Flare Talon

Flare Talon ended up not being of consequence, but the others were
invaluable.

Equipment:
Weapon: Damascus
Armor: Mithril Mesh
Shield: Fine Shield
Head: Knight Helm
Hand: Gauntlet
Acc 1: Battle Rune
Acc 2: Mental Ring

In retrospect, the fairy ring would have really helped by doubling the
amount of techniques I could use.  Not that with 800 TP I really
needed it, but if you have around 200 or 300 it gives you effectively
400 or 600, which is nice.

For reference: Cless's attack was 491 for Slice and 458 for Stab.
I should note that the Damascus was key to winning, because it has no
elemental endowment.  That's a big plus.


NECESSARY ITEMS: Chrono Glasses.  Lots of them.

This is a guide for the first time around only!  Also, check to see if
the Chrono Glasses work in the Coliseum for you, because it might
just be a bug in my copy.  If not, you're set.  Have fun.  :)

Round 1: Bugbear.  No help necessary.

Round 2: Krakken - Hit it with Phoenix right away. Keep your distance.
Four or five hits of Phoenix will send it away, they do between 1700
and 1900 damage.  If it gets too close, hit it with Tiger Teeth to
knock it back, it only does about 300 per swipe but it's still useful.
 If you think you can pull it off, try a Fury Slash for around 1500.

Round 3: Mandrake - Keep your distance and hit it with Phoenix, it
does about 1500.  If you get too close and it hits you, you could end
up a statue, so be careful.  If it pins you into a corner, use a Fury
Slash, it does around 1900 damage.  Three Phoenix's and two Fury
Slashes killed it.

Round 4: Darkvine - Use Phoenix Twice.  Next.

Round 5: Draygen - If you can pull of a Phoenix, it'll be nearly dead.
An extra swipe will kill it, but if you're forced to, you can use
Tiger Teeth or Fury Slash to kill it.

Round 6: Oakroot: Phoenix twice again.  Next.

Round 7: Fe. Golem - This one is tough, because he's serious.  He'll
pummel for 2000 damage, and a regular hit does 1200.  Fury Slash does
the best damage, 1700-1800.  2200 on a critical hit.  A regular slash
does about 150, and Tiger Teeth hits for 350-400 per swipe.  Hit him
until he dies and try not to get pummeled to death.  Heal if
necessary.

Round 8: Gorgon - Easy, just don't use Phoenix or Flare Talon, it will
heal it.  Use Tiger Teeth to keep it too far for its Stone Gaze (or if
you've equipped a Gorgon Amulet, forget the Stone Gaze entirely), and
then pound it with a Fury Slash.  It has a mean 21850 HP, and a Fury
Slash does about 1700, but keep at it and it'll die eventually.

Final Boss: Wyvern - This is where those Chrono Glasses come in handy.
Maybe it's a bug in my game, but I was allowed to use the Chrono
Glass. Phoenix hits for 1001 damage, so what do you do?  Use a Chrono
Glass. Phoenix until it wears off.  Use another.  Lather, rinse,
repeat.  It'll die.



                    ------------------------------



TACTIC:  By Jean-François Duret

 I beat the coliseum at level 54 the first time I even got there. My
equipment was a Damascus sword, a Plate Mail, a Fine Shield, a Knight
Helm, some gauntlet, a Black onyx(30% more hp) and a mental ring. My
skills were for short range magma rift and gale shield and my long
range skills were Eir's love(you know, the one that heals HP) and
Lionheart.

 My strategy is pretty simple, I just used the 4 Hourglasses and the
awesome power of Gale Shield. I just let the wyvern approach me and
then used a Hourglass to pass behind him and cast a first Gale Shield.
Once it was stuck in the corner I used Gale Shield again and again.
All you have to do is repeat the Hourglass-Gale Shield combo until it
dies.



                    ------------------------------



TACTIC: By Tofystedeth

 This is how I beat the coliseum almost immediately after arriving at
the future. First I went to Venezzia and bought the Hard Cleaver (this
axe has HUGE slashing damage). Then I equipped a Battle Rune (this is
really the only essential accessory, though a Black Onyx could be
useful too). Then I fought as far as I could through the coliseum to
level up Cless. He was at that point about level 52. The skills that
are absolutely essential are: Fury Slash (as I have found that there
are very few enemies that are immune to being hit really hard with a
sharp heavy object) and Magma Rift for short range, and Earth's Rage
and Lightning Bolt for long.

 On enemies like the Krakken, tree enemies, and plant enemies, use
Earth's Rage, it hurts them really bad. They die very quickly. On the
Gorgon use a Flare Bottle immediately then use Fury Slashes, each one
should take between 3000 - 5500 damage and kill the Gorgon very
quickly. The Fury Slash also keeps you just out of range of the
petrification and really long teeth moves. On enemies like the Fe
Golem, Solomond and others, just keep doing simple slashes until you
back them into a corner. Just keep up a steady rhythm of slashing and
they should never get to attack (once on the Fe Golem I managed to
jump over him when I did a jump slash, and ended up basically in the
same place as him, he was a little behind me, so I just keep slashing
and managed to hit him and he never got to do anything).

 On the Wyvern, Earth's Rage, Lightning Bolt, and Magma Rifts are the
techs to use. Earth's Rage hits him for about 3000-4000 total, not bad
when he only has 41000 HP. Magma Rift takes about 1500 and Lightning
Bolt is about the same. If he begins to chase after walk away as far
as you can and hit him when he lands. If you stun him walk under him
and heal up, then use Earth's Rage as it takes him a while to turn
around sometimes(I once used it 5 times before he realized where I
was) he also may pause to cast Cure, the perfect opportunity to beat
him up. If he backs you into a corner use Magma Rift like there is no
tomorrow. Most of the time he will hit the fire before he hits you,
and will be knocked back, the other times, you may get hit. Eventually
he will pause in mid air to cast his little fireball wall thingy, just
walk under him and then repeat the mauling from behind and far away
tactic discussed above.


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
VII.-                 FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VII.1- Clearing Things Out
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


 In this section I put additional info that you might want to know.
These questions weren't really asked, I'm just putting this here
because it didn't fit anywhere else.


Q - If you are not a native English speaker, then, where are you from?

A - I'm from Argentina, a South American country. I live in the city
    of Bariloche, a tourists center, so maybe some of you have been
    here sometime (not quite likely). By the way, the language spoken
    in Argentina is Spanish.


Q - Then why make a FAQ in English?

A - Because not many Spanish speaking people play RPGs, thus the FAQ
    wouldn't be worth writing.


Q - Your spelling and grammar suck!

A - Well, I'm working on that, that's what writing FAQs is all about
    for me: English practice! Please do not hesitate to send any
    corrections, especially for grammar (Microsoft Word is not very
    good when it comes to that).



¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VII.2- Game Related Questions
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


Q - The Captain of the ship that is supposed to take me to Demitel's
    Island won't take me there, why?

A - You probably forgot to talk to the people in the City Hall of
    Venezia. You MUST listen to a conversation between two people
    who mention that Demitel used to live in the city, but he works in
    an island to the west now.


Q - The ship that is supposed to take me to Undine's Cavern will only
    take me to Demitel's Island, why is that?

A - Just like when you have to go to Demitel's Island for the first
    time, you must talk to a certain person, so your characters know
    where to go and tell the Captain. You have to talk to a person in
    Alvanista's Magic Research Lab, the one who mentions the location
    of Undine's Cavern.


Q - I can't get the Eruption spell from Lenios!

A - I hadn't noticed this before, but you MUST talk to Lenios' twin
    brother in Venezia's City Hall, and THEN talk to Lenios himself.
    Only then he will notice Arche is a magician and give her the book
    of spells.


Q - My party won't separate at White Forest and I can't find the
    Unicorn! Mint dreamed about her childhood and told the party, yet
    nothing happens.

A - In order to have Mint and Arche separate at the White Forest, you
    MUST talk to a woman who mentions that the Unicorn will only
    appear before pure girls. This woman can be found in the northern
    half of Midgard.


Q - I'm stuck at Volt's Cave! In the big room with the invisible
    barrier, where you have to run to get through a door. I get to the
    door while it is still open, but I can't go through, how come?

A - This has been happening to an increasing number of people lately.
    I really don't know what the problem is (probably just a corrupted
    ROM), but I do have a solution: Standing right below the door, use
    this code: 7E2145B9 and walk through the door (literally). STOP
    RIGHT AFTER THAT, or you will get stuck in the wall. Now turn the
    code off  and just walk right a bit and use the door to leave the
    room normally.


¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-¯-
VII.3- Patch Related Questions
_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


Q - Where can I get the Patch?

A - You can get a copy from De-Jap's site at <dejap.zsnes.com>.


Q - How do I apply the Patch on the ROM?

A - The best and easiest way to apply the patch is with Zsnes'
    Auto-Patching feature. All you have to do is change the file name
    of the IPS file (the patch) to the match name of the ROM (the
    game) and put both files in the same folder in your computer. 

    Example:

    ToP.078 <-- Name of the ROM file.
    ToP.ips <-- Name of the Patch file.

    When you load the game, the emulator will apply the patch for you
    without modifying your rom, meaning that if you need the original
    Japanese version one day (to apply a new version of the patch, for
    example), you just have to delete or rename the IPS file.

    If for some reason you want to modify the ROM permanently, use
    'ips.exe' to apply the patch on the rom. You can get this little
    program at Zophar's Domain <www.zophar.net>. It's really easy to
    use.


Q - The currency in the game is Gold, how come you call it Gald all
    the time?

A - Actually, the currency is Gald, but for some reason it was changed
    by the translators. I'm just sticking to the original ^_^


======================================================================
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
VIII.-                          CREDITS
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
======================================================================


Pablo Rossi       - My friend, who indirectly introduced me to the RPG
                    world  (long story...).  He also  introduced me to
                    PSX world.  He did many other things for me but it
                    would  be too much for  this section.  And for you
                    people who love  anime,  he's also the Webmaster
                    of <www.anime2040.com.ar> (going through some
                    changes right now).

Marina Roncoroni  - It was really silly of me not to include her in
                    this section originally, I just didn't realize.
                    Anyway, she's my English teacher, who prepared me
                    for the FCE Cambridge Test without any self-
                    interest. Please give a round of applause to her!

Ignacio de Lucas  - For  letting  me  use  the  Disclaimer  from  his
                    Xenogears FAQ  (an excellent FAQ if you want my
                    opinion).

Kao Megura        - Original writer of the Disclaimer (remember to ask
                    for his approval if you want to use it).  Also, he
                    is the one who wrote one of the best FF 7 FAQs
                    ever.

GameFAQs          - For publishing my FAQ of course! Thanks a lot!
                    <www.gamefaqs.com>

Al Amaloo         - For publishing this FAQ on his personal server,
                    <www.gameadvice.com>

De-Jap            - For translating the game, of course! Also, they
                    allowed me to put pieces of the script in the FAQ.
                    Thanks a lot, guys! You can visit their site at
                    <dejap.zsnes.com>

Diego Campano     - For pointing out a mistake in the FAQ about what
                    Elwyn's father says and some other things.

Ângelo Braz       - For caring enough to point out a few misspells and
                    insisting about them when I thought he was wrong!
                    Really, thanks a lot, Ângelo.

Alexiyies         - For pointing out something about ROMs and legal
                    stuff, thanks a lot. Oh yeah, and for explaining
                    the meaning of a certain expression ^_^

Frosty840         - For giving me the probable reasons for Tales of
                    Phantasia not being released in America and for
                    his support.

Arterion Gothic   - For sending a tactic to defeat Maxwell.

Dragonmaxter      - For pointing out a mistake in section 3.3 of Part
                    I.

Stefan Zammit     - Super special thanks to him: For sending the
                    meaning of 'Artemis', 'Ifrit', 'Harpy', 'Sylph',
                    'Basilisk', 'Lilith' and 'Moria' for section VI.3
                    (Part II). He also sent many corrections for both
                    grammar and orthography. Finally, he is working on
                    the HTML version of the FAQ. Truly, more than a
                    contributor, a friend.

Tyson Anderson    - For pointing out that I hadn't put the classical
                    cheat to get lots of Gald for section VI.2 and for
                    making me notice a glitch produced by turning off
                    the 'No Random Battles' code while in a town or
                    area where there are usually no battles.

Sam Chen          - For making me notice a mistake regarding where to
                    place the Elemental Spirits in the 10th level of
                    the Moria Gallery.

Chris Morgan      - I can't thank him enough! He sent the Item
                    Modification Codes. Actually, more than 75% of
                    the cheats file available at Gamefaqs is his
                    work. Pretty amazing for a contribution, isn't it?
                    Again, THANKS A MILLION!

Jeay-Thomas PEGUY - For telling me that you get 50,000 Gald from the
                    king of Midgard if you defeat the boss at the
                    Valhalla Plains in less than one day (see section
                    3.20).

Seventh Force X   - For giving me the idea of making the Skill Master
                    codes and for sending his Infinite TP codes
                    (although I had added my own some time before).

Kimura Soichiro   - For pointing out a mistake the Moria Gallery
                    walkthrough (see section 3.15).

Jeffrey Tam       - For allowing me to use his great Skill Activation
                    Codes and his list of PAR values for the Item
                    Modification codes. THANKS A LOT!

Henryjin2001      - For sending a tactic to win easily the first
                    encounter with Dhaos.

Larry Leow        - For sending tons of useful bits of information, as
                    well as the definition of 'Dwarf' for section VI.3
                    of Part II

Firestarter       - For sending some information about one of Kazuhiko
                    Inoue and Mika Kanai's roles for section VI.4.

El OscurO         - For tons of info on mythology for sections VI.2
                    and VI.3. Especially for the detailed info on the
                    Moria Mines in 'Lord of the Rings'.

Arlieth Tralare   - For sending a tactic to win at the coliseum at low
                    levels.

Fábio P. Simões   - For sending a tactic to defeat the Fang Wolf.

Nathan J. Britton - For sending several corrections for expressions.

5parrowhawk       - For some information on 'Maxwell' and 'Seraphim'
                    for sections VI.2 and VI.3 and for some other
                    suggestions.

Bonehead          - For telling me about two chests at the Treant's
                    Forest that I had missed.

Giovanni Marcon   - For telling me about the happy ending to Elwyn and
                    Nancy's story.

Jez               - For the information on 'Mah Jongg' for section
                    VI.3.

Joe.J.Glogowski   - For finally confirming that the backup of games IS
                    legal.

Daniel Orner      - For allowing me to use some information from his
                    Tales of Phantasia Shrine. You can visit the
                    Shrine at <http://s2.rpgclassics.com/top/>.

Joab Hwang        - For sending his tactic to defeat Dozo and Okiyo
                    (see section VI.5).

Dreams in Digital - For sending a detailed tactic for the Coliseum
                    (see section VI.5).

Flyingfox         - For sending a strategy for Fang Wolf (see section
                    VI.5).

Patrick Claypool  - For sending a strategy to defeat Neo Dhaos, Ifrit,
                    Gnome and Undine (see section VI.5).

Juan M. G de Leon - For sending his strategy to defeat Fang Wolf (see
                    section VI.5).

Eon Dreamer       - For a little bit of info about Mount Moria (see
                    section VI.3).

Evan Behar        - For sending his strategy for the Coliseum (see
                    section VI.5).

Jean-F. Duret     - For sending his strategy for the Coliseum (see
                    section VI.5).

Philip1701        - For some info on 'Luna' for section VI.3.

Eoin.Mcloughlin   - For a few corrections on spelling and grammar.

Xinyu Li          - For a small correction regarding Dr. Livingstone
                    for section VI.3.

L. Lloyd          - For pointing out a few mistakes I committed in
                    certain parts of the walkthrough.

Tofystedeth       - For two strategies for section VI.5.

REMEGSEB@aol.com  - For sending s strategy for Volt (see section
                    VI.5).

Lord Niko         - For translating the FAQ into French!

Greg Davis        - For hosting the FAQ at his site, The RPG Realm
                    <www.rpgrealm.com>.
